PART 216-TYPES OF CONTRACTS

SUBPART 216.1-SELECTING CONTRACT TYPES

216.101  Policies.
Do not use a cost-reimbursement line item for the acquisition of production of major defense acquisition programs, unless the exception at 234.7202(b)(2) applies.  (Section 811 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Pub. L. 112-239))

216.102  Negotiating contract type.
See PGI 216.102 for selecting and negotiating the most appropriate contract type for a given procurement.  

216.102-70  Research and development.
Follow the procedures at PGI 216.102-70 for selecting the appropriate research and development contract type.  See 235.170 for additional requirements when selecting contract type.

SUBPART 216.2-FIXED-PRICE CONTRACTS

216.203  Fixed-price contracts with economic price adjustment.

216.203-4  Contract clauses.

		(1)  Insert the clauses at FAR 52.216-2, Economic Price Adjustment-Standard Supplies, FAR 52.216-3, Economic Price Adjustment-Semistandard Supplies, and FAR 52.216-4, Economic Price Adjustment-Labor and Material, only when-

			(i)  The total contract price exceeds the simplified acquisition threshold; and

			(ii)  Delivery or performance will not be completed within 6 months after contract award.

		(2)  Follow the procedures at PGI 216.203-4 when inserting an economic price adjustment clause based on cost indexes of labor or material.

216.203-470  Additional provisions and clauses.

	(a)  Price adjustment for basic steel, aluminum, brass, bronze, or copper mill products.

		(1)(i)  Contracting officers may insert the price adjustment clause at 252.216-7000, Economic Price Adjustment-Basic Steel, Aluminum, Brass, Bronze, or Copper Mill Products, in fixed-price supply solicitations and contracts for basic steel, aluminum, brass, bronze, or copper mill products, such as sheets, plates, and bars, when an established catalog or market price exists for the particular product being acquired.

			(ii)  Do not exceed the 10 percent figure in paragraph (d)(1) of the clause unless approved at a level above the contracting officer.

		(2)  Insert the price adjustment provision at 252.216-7007, Economic Price Adjustment-Basic Steel, Aluminum, Brass, Bronze, or Copper Mill Products-Representation, in solicitations that include the clause at 252.216-7000, Economic Price Adjustment-Basic Steel, Aluminum, Brass, Bronze, or Copper Mill Products.

	(b)  Price adjustment for nonstandard steel items.

		(1)  The contracting officer may insert the price adjustment clause at 252.216-7001, Economic Price Adjustment-Nonstandard Steel Items, in fixed-price supply contracts when-

			(i)  The contractor is a steel producer and actually manufacturers the standard steel mill item referred to in the "base steel index" definition of the clause; and

			(ii)  The items being acquired are nonstandard steel items made wholly or in part of standard steel mill items.

		(2)  When this clause is included in invitations for bids, remove Note 6 of the clause and all references to Note 6.

		(3)  Instruct offerors to complete all blanks in accordance with the applicable notes.

		(4)  Verify the price, when the clause is to provide for adjustment on a basis other than "established price" (see Note 6 of the clause).

		(5)  Do not exceed the 10 percent figure in paragraph (e)(4) of the clause unless approved at a level above the contracting officer.

	(c)  Price adjustment for wage rates or material prices controlled by a foreign government.

		(1)(i)  Contracting officers may insert the price adjustment clause at 252.216-7003, Economic Price Adjustment-Wage Rates or Material Prices Controlled by a Foreign Government, in fixed-price supply and service solicitations and contracts when?

				(A)  The contract is to be performed wholly or in part in a foreign country; and

				(B)  A foreign government controls wage rates or material prices and may, during contract performance, impose a mandatory change in wages or prices of material.

			(ii)  Verify the base wage rates and material prices prior to contract award and prior to making any adjustment in the contract price.

		(2)  Insert the provision at 252.216-7008, Economic Price Adjustment-Wage Rates or Material Prices Controlled by a Foreign Government-Representation, in solicitations that include the clause at 252.216-7003, Economic Price Adjustment-Wage Rates or Material Prices Controlled by a Foreign Government.  If the solicitation includes the provision at FAR 52.204-7, do not separately list the provision 252.216-7008 in the solicitation.


SUBPART 216.3-COST-REIMBURSEMENT CONTRACTS

216.301-3  Limitations.
For contracts in connection with a military construction project or a military family housing project, contracting officers must not use cost-plus-fixed-fee, cost-plus-award-fee, or cost-plus-incentive-fee contract types (10 U.S.C 3323).  This applies notwithstanding a declaration of war or the declaration by the President of a national emergency under section 201 of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1621) that includes the use of the Armed Forces.

216.304  Cost-plus-fixed-fee contracts.

216.304-2  Limitations.  
For contracts in connection with a military construction project or military family housing project, see the prohibition at 216.301-3.

		(1)  Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this section, annual military construction appropriations acts prohibit the use of cost-plus-fixed-fee contracts that-

			(i)  Are funded by a military construction appropriations act;

			(ii)  Are estimated to exceed $25,000; and

			(iii)  Will be performed within the United States, except Alaska.

		(2)  The prohibition in paragraph (1) of this section does not apply to a contract if it is specifically approved in writing.  That written approval must explain the reasons for granting an exception and follow the approval process described below:

			(i)  The Secretaries of the military departments are authorized to approve such contracts that are for environmental work only, provided the environmental work is not classified as construction, as defined by 10 U.S.C. 2801.

			(ii)  The Secretary of Defense or designee must approve such contracts that are not for environmental work only or are for environmental work classified as construction.

216.305  Contract clauses.

	(a)  As required by section 827 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Pub. L. 112-239), insert the clause at 252.216-7009, Allowability of Costs Incurred in Connection With a Whistleblower Proceeding-

		(1)  (A) In task orders entered pursuant to contracts awarded before September 30, 2013, that include the clause at FAR 52.216-7, Allowable Cost and Payment; and

				(B) In contracts awarded before September 30, 2013, that-

					(1)  Include the clause at FAR 52.216-7, Allowable Cost and Payment; and

					(2)  Are modified to include the clause at DFARS 252.203-7002, Requirement to Inform Employees of Whistleblower Rights, dated September 2013 or later.

SUBPART 216.4-INCENTIVE CONTRACTS

216.401  General.

216.401-1 Description.

	(c)  See PGI 216.401-1(c) for information on incentive contracts.

216.401-2  Limitations.
The determination and findings justifying that the use of an incentive- or award-fee contract is in the best interest of the Government, may be signed by the head of contracting activity but no lower than-

		(1)  One level below the head of the contracting activity for award-fee contracts; or

		(2)  One level above the contracting officer for incentive-fee contracts.

216.401-71  Objective criteria.

	(a)  Use objective criteria to the maximum extent possible to measure contract performance.  Objective criteria are associated with cost-plus-incentive-fee and fixed-price-incentive contracts.

	(b)  When objective criteria exist but the contracting officer determines that it is in the best interest of the Government to also incentivize subjective elements of performance, the most appropriate contract type is a multiple-incentive contract containing both objective incentives and subjective award-fee criteria (i.e., cost-plus-incentive-fee/award-fee or fixed-price-incentive/award-fee).

	(c)  See PGI 216.402-2(c) for guidance on the use of award-fee contracts.

216.402  Award fee.

216.402-2 Limitations.

	(c)  Award-fee plans required in FAR 16.402-2(c) must be incorporated into all award-fee type contracts.  Follow the procedures at PGI 216.402-2(c) when planning to award an award-fee contract.

216.402-4  Cost-plus-award-fee contracts.

		(1)  Award-fee pool.  The award-fee pool is the total available award fee for each evaluation period for the life of the contract.  The contracting officer must perform an analysis of appropriate fee distribution to ensure at least 40 percent of the award fee is available for the final evaluation so that the award fee is appropriately distributed over all evaluation periods to incentivize the contractor throughout performance of the contract.  The percentage of award fee available for the final evaluation may be set below 40 percent if the contracting officer determines that a lower percentage is appropriate and obtains the head of the contracting activity (HCA) approval.  The HCA approval is not delegable.

		(2)  Award-fee evaluation and payments.  Award-fee payments other than payments resulting from the evaluation at the end of an award-fee period are prohibited.  This prohibition does not apply to base-fee payments.  Provide the fee-determining official's rating for award-fee evaluations to the contractor within 45 calendar days of the end of the evaluation period.  The final award-fee payment will be consistent with the fee-determining official's final evaluation of the contractor's overall performance against the cost, schedule, and performance outcomes specified in the award-fee plan.

		(3)  Limitations.

			(i)  The cost-plus-award-fee contract must not be used-

				(A)  To avoid-

					(1)  Establishing cost-plus-fixed-fee contracts when the criteria for cost-plus-fixed-fee contracts apply; or

					(2)  Developing objective targets so a cost-plus-incentive-fee contract can be used; or

				(B)  For either engineering development or operational system development acquisitions that have specifications suitable for simultaneous research and development and production.  A contracting officer may use a cost-plus-award-fee contract for individual engineering development or operational system development acquisitions ancillary to the development of a major weapon system or equipment, where-

					(1)  It is more advantageous; and

					(2)  The purpose of the acquisition is clearly to determine or solve specific problems associated with the major weapon system or equipment.

			(ii)  Do not apply the weighted guidelines method to cost-plus-award-fee contracts for either the base (fixed) fee or the award fee.

			(iii)  The base fee must not exceed three percent of the estimated cost of the contract exclusive of the fee.

		(4)  See PGI 216.402-4 for guidance on the use of cost-plus-award-fee contracts.

216.402-470  Award fee reduction or denial for jeopardizing the health or safety of Government personnel.

(a)  Definitions.  As used in this section-

"Covered incident" and "serious bodily injury," are defined in the clause at 252.216-7004, Award Fee Reduction or Denial for Jeopardizing the Health or Safety of Government Personnel.

	(b)  The contracting officer must include in the evaluation criteria of any award-fee plan, a review of contractor and subcontractor actions that jeopardized the health or safety of Government personnel, through gross negligence or reckless disregard for the safety of such personnel, as determined through-

		(1)  Conviction in a criminal proceeding, or finding of fault and liability in a civil or administrative proceeding (in accordance with section 823 of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year (FY) 2010 (Pub. L. 111-84)); or

		(2)  If a contractor or a subcontractor at any tier is not subject to the jurisdiction of the U.S. courts, a final determination of contractor or subcontractor fault resulting from a DoD investigation (in accordance with section 834 of the NDAA for FY 2011 (Pub. L. 111-383)).

	(c)  In evaluating the contractor's performance under a contract that includes the clause at 252.216-7004, Award Fee Reduction or Denial for Jeopardizing the Health or Safety of Government Personnel, the contracting officer must consider reducing or denying award fees for a period, if contractor or subcontractor actions cause serious bodily injury or death of civilian or military Government personnel during such period.  The contracting officer's evaluation must consider recovering all or part of award fees previously paid for such period.
 
216.402-471  Award fee reduction or denial for failure to comply with requirements relating to performance of private security functions.

	(a)  In accordance with section 862 of the NDAA for FY 2008, and section 831 of the NDAA for FY 2011, include a requirement to review contractor compliance with, or violation of, applicable requirements of the contract in any award-fee plan with regard to the performance of private security functions in an area of contingency operations, complex contingency operations, or other military operations or exercises that are designated by the combatant commander (see PGI 225.770).

	(b)  In evaluating the contractor's performance under a contract that includes the clause at 252.225-7039, Defense Contractors Performing Private Security Functions Outside the United States, the contracting officer must consider reducing or denying award fees for a period if the contractor fails to comply with the requirements of the clause during such period.  The contracting officer's evaluation also must consider recovering all or part of award fees previously paid for such period.

216.402-472  Contract clauses.
Insert the clause at 252.216-7004, Award Fee Reduction or Denial for Jeopardizing the Health or Safety of Government Personnel, in all solicitations and contracts containing award-fee provisions.

216.402-473  Other applications of award fees.
See PGI 216.402-473 for guidance on other applications of award fees.

216.403  Application of predetermined, formula-type incentives.

216.403-2  Performance incentives.

		(1)  See PGI 216.403-2 for guidance on establishing performance incentives.

		(2)  Contracting officers must ensure requirements for the payment of incentive fees or the imposition of penalties are included in the solicitation for the engineering and manufacturing development or production of a weapon system, including embedded software, if the program manager or comparable requiring activity official exercising program manager responsibilities includes-

			(i)  Provisions for the payment of incentive fees based on achievement of design specification requirements for reliability and maintainability of weapons systems under the contract; or 

			(ii)  The imposition of penalties to be paid by the contractor to the Government for failure to achieve such design specification requirements (10 U.S.C. 4328).

216.404  Fixed-price incentive contracts.

216.404-170  Fixed-price incentive (firm target) contracts.
See PGI 215.404-170 for guidance on the selection and use of fixed-price incentive (firm target) contracts.

216.404-2  Fixed-price incentive (successive targets) contracts.
See PGI 216.404-2 for guidance on the use of fixed-price incentive (successive targets) contracts.

216.405  Cost-plus-incentive-fee contracts.
See PGI 216.405 for guidance on the use of cost-plus-incentive-fee contracts.

SUBPART 216.5-INDEFINITE-DELIVERY CONTRACTS

216.500  Scope.

	(d)(i)  When awarding task orders or delivery orders for architect-engineer services under a multiple-award contract, follow the procedures for the selection of contractors and placement of orders at FAR 36.102  to implement 10 U.S.C. 3406(h)(1).

			(ii)  Contracting officers must not request additional information related to contractor qualifications, unless it is necessary to determine the most highly qualified contractor for the particular task order or delivery order (10 U.S.C. 3406(h)(2)).

216.501  General.

216.501-270  Policies.

	(a)(i)  For items with a shelf-life of less than six months, consider the use of indefinite-delivery type contracts with orders to be placed either-

				(A)  Directly by the users; or

				(B)  By central purchasing offices with deliveries direct to users.

			(ii)  Whenever an indefinite-delivery contract is issued, the issuing office must furnish all ordering offices sufficient information for the ordering office to complete its contract reporting responsibilities under 204.301.  This data must be furnished to the ordering activity in sufficient time for the activity to prepare its report for the action within three working days of the order.

	(b)  See 217.201-71(a) for limitations on the period for task order or delivery order contracts awarded by DoD pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 3403.

216.504  Indefinite-quantity contracts.

216.504-3  Multiple award preference.

	(a)(4)(i)  The senior procurement executive has the authority to make the determination authorized in FAR 16.504-3(a)(4)(i).

				(A)  In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 3403(d)(3), when making the determination at FAR 16.504-3(a)(4)(i)(A), the senior procurement executive must determine that the task or delivery orders expected under the contract are so integrally related that only a single source can "efficiently perform the work," instead of "reasonably perform the work" as required by the FAR.

			(a)(4)(ii)  The congressional notification requirement at FAR 16.504-3(a)(4)(ii) does not apply to DoD.

			(a)(4)(iii)  In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 3403(d)(3), the determination at FAR 16.504-3(a)(4)(iii)  is not required if a justification has been executed, in accordance with FAR 6.104 and section 206.104.

216.505  Solicitation provisions and contract clauses.

216.505-70  Additional solicitation provisions and contract clause.

	(a)  Insert the provisions at 252.215-7007, Notice of Intent to Resolicit, and 252.215-7008, Only One Offer, as prescribed at 215.271-6 and 215.110(3), respectively.

	(b)  Insert the clause at 252.216-7010, Postaward Debriefings for Task Orders and Delivery Orders, in competitive negotiated solicitations and contracts, including solicitations and contracts using FAR part 12 procedures for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services, when a multiple-award contract is contemplated and task orders or delivery orders placed under the contract may be valued at $10 million or more.

216.506-70  Postaward procedures for placement of task and delivery orders.

216.506-701  Orders placed under indefinite-delivery contracts may be issued on DD Form 1155, Order for Supplies or Services.

216.506-702  Departments and agencies must comply with the review, approval, and reporting requirements established in accordance with subpart 217.6 when placing orders under non-DoD contracts in amounts exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold.

216.506-703  See 204.7603 for procedures on the required use of the Supplier Performance Risk System (SPRS) risk assessments.

			(i)  The contracting officer must ensure SPRS assessments of price risk and supplier risk are considered as a part of the award decision.

			(ii)  When placing an order for an end product identified by a material identifier that is available as described at PGI 204.7603, and item risk was not previously considered during award of the contract, the contracting officer must also consider SPRS assessments of item risk in the award decision.

			(iii)  Insert the provision at 252.204-7024, Notice on the Use of the Supplier Performance Risk System, as prescribed in 204.7604 to the extent permitted by the contract.

216.507  Additional ordering procedures for multiple-award contracts.

216.507-2  Fair opportunity procedures.

			(A)  See 215.103-270 for the limitations and prohibitions on the use of the lowest price technically acceptable source selection process, which are applicable to orders placed against multiple award indefinite delivery contracts.

			(B)  See 217.870 for the prohibition on the use of reverse auctions for personal protective equipment and aviation critical safety items.

216.507-5  Orders valued above $7.5 million 

		(c)  Postaward notices and debriefing.  In addition to the notice required by FAR part 15 and 16.507-5(c), a written or oral postaward debriefing of successful and unsuccessful awardees is required for task orders and delivery orders valued at $10 million or more (section 818 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Pub. L. 115-91)).

			(ii)  Follow the procedures at 215.301-1 and 215.301-270 when providing the postaward debriefing to successful and unsuccessful awardees for task orders or delivery orders valued at $10 million or more.

216.507-6  Exceptions to fair opportunity.

		(b)  Exceptions.  For an order exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold, that is a follow-on to an order previously issued for the same supply or service based on a justification for an exception to fair opportunity citing the authority at FAR 16.507-6(b)(2) or (3), follow the procedures at PGI 216.507-6(b).

216.507-70  Orders under multiple award contracts.

	(a)  If only one offer is received in response to an order exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold that is placed on a competitive basis, the contracting officer must follow the procedures at 215.271-6.

	(b)  See PGI 216.507-7 for guidance regarding minimum labor category qualifications for orders issued under multiple-award services contracts.

SUBPART 216.6-TIME-AND-MATERIALS, LABOR-HOUR, AND LETTER CONTRACTS

216.601  Time-and-materials contracts.

216.601-370  Limitations.

	(a)(1) Approval of determination and findings for time-and-materials or labor-hour contracts.

			(i)  Base period plus any option periods is three years or less.

				(A)  For contracts (including indefinite-delivery contracts) and orders in which the portion of the requirement performed on a time-and-materials or labor-hour basis exceeds $1 million, the approval authority for the determination and findings must be the senior contracting official within the contracting activity.  This authority may not be delegated.

				(B)  For contracts (including indefinite-delivery contracts) and orders in which the portion of the requirement performed on a time-and-materials or labor-hour basis is less than or equal to $1 million, the determination and findings must be approved one level above the contracting officer.

			(ii)  Base period plus any option periods exceeds three years.  The head of the contracting activity is the authority to approve the determination and findings.  This authority may not be delegated.

			(iii)  Exception.  The approval requirements in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) of this section do not apply to contracts that, as determined by the head of the contracting activity-

				(A)  Support contingency or humanitarian or peacekeeping operations; or

				(B)  Facilitate defense against or recovery from conventional, cyber, nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological attack;

				(C)  Facilitate the provision of international disaster assistance; or

				(D)  Support response to an emergency or major disaster.

		(2)  Content of determination and findings.  The determination and findings must contain sufficient facts and rationale to justify that no other contract type is suitable.  At a minimum, the determination and findings must-

			(i)  Include a description of the market research conducted;

			(ii)  Establish that it is not possible at the time of placing the contract or order to accurately estimate the extent or duration of the work or to anticipate costs with any reasonable degree of certainty;

			(iii)  Address why a cost-plus-fixed-fee term or other cost-reimbursement, incentive, or fixed-price contract or order is not appropriate; for contracts (including indefinite-delivery contracts) and orders for other than commercial products or commercial services awarded to contractors with adequate accounting systems, a cost-plus-fixed-fee term contract type must be preferred over a time-and-materials or labor-hour contract type;

			(iv)  Establish that the requirement has been structured to minimize the use of time-and-materials and labor-hour requirements (e.g., limiting the value or length of the time-and-materials or labor-hour portion of the contract or order; establishing fixed prices for portions of the requirement); and

			(v)   Describe the actions planned to minimize the use of time-and-materials and labor-hour contracts on future acquisitions for the same requirements.

		(3)  Indefinite-delivery contracts.  For indefinite-delivery contracts, structure contracts that authorize time-and-materials orders to also authorize orders on a cost-reimbursement, incentive, or fixed-price basis, to the maximum extent practicable.

216.601-4  Solicitation provisions.

	(a) Insert the provision at FAR 52.216-29, Time-and-Materials/Labor-Hour Proposal Requirements-Other Than Commercial Acquisition with Adequate Price Competition, with 252.216-7002, Alternate A, in solicitations contemplating the use of a time-and-materials or labor-hour contract type for other than commercial products or commercial services if the price is expected to be based on adequate competition.

216.603  Letter contracts.

216.603-2  Application.

	(c)  In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 3372, establish definitization schedules for letter contracts following the requirements at 217.7404-3(a) instead of the requirements at FAR 16.603-2(c).

216.603-3  Limitations.
See Subpart 217.74 for additional limitations on the use of letter contracts.

216.603-4  Contract clauses.

	(b)(2)  See 217.7405(a) for additional guidance regarding use of the clause at FAR 52.216-24, Limitation of Government Liability.

		(3)  Insert the clause at 252.217-7027, Contract Definitization, in accordance with its prescription at 217.7406(b), instead of the clause at FAR 52.216-25, Contract Definitization.

SUBPART 216.7-AGREEMENTS

216.703  Basic ordering agreements.

216.703-3  Limitations.  
The period during which orders may be placed against a basic ordering agreement may not exceed 5 years.

	(d)  Follow the procedures at PGI 216.703-3(d) for issuing orders under basic ordering agreements.

SUBPART 252-SOLICITATION PROVISIONS AND CONTRACT CLAUSES

SUBPART 252.2-TEXT OF PROVISIONS AND CLAUSES

252.216-7000 Economic Price Adjustment-Basic Steel, Aluminum, Brass, Bronze, or Copper Mill Products. 
As prescribed in 216.203-470(a)(1), use the following clause:

ECONOMIC PRICE ADJUSTMENT-BASIC STEEL, ALUMINUM, BRASS,
BRONZE, OR COPPER MILL PRODUCTS (JAN 2023)

	(a) Definitions. As used in this clause-

	"Established price" means a price which is an established catalog or market price for a commercial product sold in substantial quantities to the general public.

	"Unit price" excludes any part of the price which reflects requirements for preservation, packaging, and packing beyond standard commercial practice.

	(b) As represented by the Contractor in its offer, the unit price stated for ____________________(Identify the item) is not in excess of the Contractor's established price in effect on the date set for opening of bids (or the contract date if this is a negotiated contract) for like quantities of the same item. This price is the net price after applying any applicable standard trade discounts offered by the Contractor from its catalog, list, or schedule price.

	(c) The Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer of the amount and effective date of each decrease in any established price.

		(1) Each corresponding contract unit price shall be decreased by the same percentage that the established price is decreased.

		(2) This decrease shall apply to items delivered on or after the effective date of the decrease in the Contractor's established price.

		(3) This contract shall be modified accordingly.

	(d) If the Contractor's established price is increased after the date set for opening of bids (or the contract date if this is a negotiated contract), upon the Contractor's written request to the Contracting Officer, the corresponding contract unit price shall be increased by the same percentage that the established price is increased, and this contract shall be modified accordingly, provided-

		(1) The aggregate of the increases in any contract unit price under this contract shall not exceed 10 percent of the original contract unit price;

		(2) The increased contract unit price shall be effective on the effective date of the increase in the applicable established price if the Contractor's written request is received by the Contracting Officer within ten days of the change. If it is not, the effective date of the increased unit price shall be the date of receipt of the request by the Contracting Officer; and

		(3) The increased contract unit price shall not apply to quantities scheduled for delivery before the effective date of the increased contract unit price unless the Contractor's failure to deliver before that date results from causes beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor, within the meaning of the Default clause of this contract.

		(4) The Contracting Officer shall not execute a modification incorporating an increase in a contract unit price under this clause until the increase is verified.

	(e) Within 30 days after receipt of the Contractor's written request, the Contracting Officer may cancel, without liability to either party, any portion of the contract affected by the requested increase and not delivered at the time of such cancellation, except as follows-

		(1) The Contractor may, after that time, deliver any items that were completed or in the process of manufacture at the time of receipt of the cancellation notice, provided the Contractor notifies the Contracting Officer of such items within 10 days after the Contractor receives the cancellation notice.

		(2) The Government shall pay for those items at the contract unit price increased to the extent provided by paragraph (d) of this clause.

		(3) Any standard steel supply item shall be deemed to be in the process of manufacture when the steel for that item is in the state of processing after the beginning of the furnace melt.

	(f) Pending any cancellation of this contract under paragraph (e) of this clause, or if there is no cancellation, the Contractor shall continue deliveries according to the delivery schedule of the contract. The Contractor shall be paid for those deliveries at the contract unit price increased to the extent provided by paragraph (d) of this clause.

(End of clause)

252.216-7001 Economic Price Adjustment-Nonstandard Steel Items. 
As prescribed in 216.203-470(b), use the following clause:

ECONOMIC PRICE ADJUSTMENT-NONSTANDARD STEEL ITEMS (JAN 2023)

	(a) Definitions. As used in this clause-

	"Base labor index" means the average of the labor indices for the three months which consist of the month of bid opening (or offer submission) and the months immediately preceding and following that month.

	"Base steel index" means the Contractor's established price (see Note 6) including all applicable extras of $________ per ____________ (see Note 1) for _______________ (see Note 2) on the date set for bid opening (or the date of submission of the offer).

	"Current labor index" means the average of the labor indices for the month in which delivery of supplies is required to be made and the month preceding.

	"Current steel index" means the Contractor's established price (see Note 6) for that item, including all applicable extras in effect ___ days (see Note 3) prior to the first day of the month in which delivery is required.

	"Established price" is-

		(1) A price which is an established catalog or market price of a commercial product sold in substantial quantities to the general public; and

		(2) The net price after applying any applicable standard trade discounts offered by the Contractor from its catalog, list, or schedule price. (But see Note 6.)

	"Labor index" means the average straight time hourly earnings of the Contractor's employees in the ____________ shop of the Contractor's ________________ plant (see Note 4) for any particular month.

	"Month" means calendar month. However, if the Contractor's accounting period does not coincide with the calendar month, then that accounting period shall be used in lieu of "month."

	(b) Each contract unit price shall be subject to revision, under the terms of this clause, to reflect changes in the cost of labor and steel. For purpose of this price revision, the proportion of the contract unit price attributable to costs of labor not otherwise included in the price of the steel item identified under the "base steel index" definition in paragraph (a) shall be _____ percent, and the proportion of the contract unit price attributable to the cost of steel shall be _____ percent. (See Note 5.)

	(c)(1) Unless otherwise specified in this contract, the labor index shall be computed by dividing the total straight time earnings of the Contractor's employees in the shop identified in paragraph (a) for any given month by the total number of straight time hours worked by those employees in that month.

		(2) Any revision in a contract unit price to reflect changes in the cost of labor shall be computed solely by reference to the "base labor index" and the "current labor index."

	(d) Any revision in a contract unit price to reflect changes in the cost of steel shall be computed solely by reference to the "base steel index" and the "current steel index."

	(e)(1) Each contract unit price shall be revised for each month in which delivery of supplies is required to be made.

		(2) The revised contract unit price shall apply to the deliveries of those quantities required to be made in that month regardless of when actual delivery is made.

		(3) Each revised contract unit price shall be computed by adding-

			(i) The adjusted cost of labor (obtained by multiplying ____ percent of the contract unit price by a fraction, of which the numerator shall be the current labor index and the denominator shall be the base labor index);

			(ii) The adjusted cost of steel (obtained by multiplying ____ percent of the contract unit price by a fraction, of which the numerator shall be the current steel index and the denominator shall be the base steel index); and

			(iii) The amount equal to ____ percent of the original contract unit price (representing that portion of the unit price which relates neither to the cost of labor nor the cost of steel, and which is therefore not subject to revision (see Note 5)).

		(4) The aggregate of the increases in any contract unit price under this contract shall not exceed ten percent of the original contract unit price.

		(5) Computations shall be made to the nearest one-hundredth of one cent.

	(f)(1) Pending any revisions of the contract unit prices, the Contractor shall be paid the contract unit price for deliveries made.

		(2) Within 30 days after final delivery (or such other period as may be authorized by the Contracting Officer), the Contractor shall furnish a statement identifying the correctness of-

			(i) The average straight time hourly earnings of the Contractor's employees in the shop identified in paragraph (a) that are relevant to the computations of the "base labor index" and the "current labor index;" and

			(ii) The Contractor's established prices (see Note 6), including all applicable extras for like quantities of the item that are relevant to the computation of the "base steel index" and the "current steel index."

		(3) Upon request of the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall make available all records used in the computation of the labor indices.

		(4) Upon receipt of the statement, the Contracting Officer will compute the revised contract unit prices and modify the contract accordingly. No modification to this contract will be made pursuant to this clause until the Contracting Officer has verified the revised established price (see Note 6).

	(g)(1) In the event any item of this contract is subject to a total or partial termination for convenience, the month in which the Contractor receives notice of the termination, if prior to the month in which delivery is required, shall be considered the month in which delivery of the terminated item is required for the purposes of determining the current labor and steel indices under paragraphs (c) and (d).

		(2) For any item which is not terminated for convenience, the month in which delivery is required under the contract shall continue to apply for determining those indices with respect to the quantity of the non-terminated item.

		(3) If this contract is terminated for default, any price revision shall be limited to the quantity of the item which has been delivered by the Contractor and accepted by the Government prior to receipt by the Contractor of the notice of termination.

	(h) If the Contractor's failure to make delivery of any required quantity arises out of causes beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor, within
the meaning of the clause of this contract entitled "Default," the quantity not delivered shall be delivered as promptly as possible after the cessation of the cause of the failure, and the delivery schedule set forth in this contract shall be amended accordingly.

NOTES:

1  Offeror insert the unit price and unit measure of the standard steel mill item to be used in the manufacture of the contract item.

2  Offeror identify the standard steel mill item to be used in the manufacture of the contract item.

3  Offeror insert best estimate of the number of days required for processing the standard steel mill item in the shop identified under the "labor index" definition.

4  Offeror identify the shop and plant in which the standard steel mill item identified under the "base steel index" definition will be finally fabricated or processed into the contract item.

5  Offeror insert the same percentage figures for the corresponding blanks in paragraphs (b), (e)(3)(i), and (e)(3)(ii). In paragraph (e)(3)(iii), insert the percentage representing the difference between the sum of the percentages inserted in paragraph (b) and 100 percent.

6  In negotiated acquisitions of nonstandard steel items, when there is no "established price" or when it is not desirable to use this price, this paragraph may refer to another appropriate price basis, e.g., an established interplant price.

(End of clause)

252.216-7002 Alternate A, Time-and-Materials/Labor-Hour Proposal Requirements-Other Than Commercial Acquisition with Adequate Price Competition. 
As prescribed in 216.601-4(a), substitute the following paragraph (c) for paragraph (c) of the provision at FAR 52.216-29:

ALTERNATE A, TIME-AND-MATERIALS/LABOR-HOUR PROPOSAL REQUIREMENTS-OTHER THAN COMMERCIAL ACQUISITION WITH ADEQUATE PRICE COMPETITION (JAN 2023)

(c) The offeror must establish fixed hourly rates using separate rates for each category of labor to be performed by each subcontractor and for each category of labor to be performed by the offeror, and for each category of labor to be transferred between divisions, subsidiaries, or affiliates of the offeror under a common control.

252.216-7003 Economic Price Adjustment-Wage Rates or Material Prices Controlled by a Foreign Government. 
As prescribed in 216.203-470(c)(1), use the following clause:

ECONOMIC PRICE ADJUSTMENT-WAGE RATES OR MATERIAL PRICES CONTROLLED BY A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT (MAR 2012)

	(a) As represented by the Contractor in its offer, the prices set forth in this contract-

		(1) Are based on the wage rate(s) or material price(s) established and controlled by the government of the country specified by the Contractor in its offer; and

		(2) Do not include contingency allowances to pay for possible increases in wage rates or material prices.

	(b) If wage rates or material prices are revised by the government named in paragraph (a) of this clause, the Contracting Officer shall make an equitable adjustment in the contract price and shall modify the contract to the extent that the Contractor's actual costs of performing this contract are increased or decreased, as a direct result of the revision, subject to the following:

		(1) For increases in established wage rates or material prices, the increase in contract unit price(s) shall be effective on the same date that the government named in paragraph (a) of this clause increased the applicable wage rate(s) or material price(s), but only if the Contracting Officer receives the Contractor's written request for contract adjustment within 10 days of the change. If the Contractor's request is received later, the effective date shall be the date that the Contracting Officer received the Contractor's request.

		(2) For decreases in established wage rates or material prices, the decrease in contract unit price(s) shall be effective on the same date that the government named in paragraph (a) of this clause decreased the applicable wage rate(s) or material price(s). The decrease in contract unit price(s) shall apply to all items delivered on and after the effective date of the government's rate or price decrease.

	(c) No modification changing the contract unit price(s) shall be executed until the Contracting Officer has verified the applicable change in the rates or prices set by the government named in paragraph (a) of this clause. The Contractor shall make available its books and records that support a requested change in contract price.

	(d) Failure to agree to any adjustment shall be a dispute under the Disputes clause of this contract.

(End of clause)

252.216-7004 Award Fee Reduction or Denial for Jeopardizing the Health or Safety of Government Personnel. 
As prescribed in 216.402-472, use the following clause:

AWARD FEE REDUCTION OR DENIAL FOR JEOPARDIZING THE HEALTH OR
SAFETY OF GOVERNMENT PERSONNEL (SEP 2011)

	(a) Definitions. As used in this clause-

	"Covered incident"-

		(i) Means any incident in which the Contractor, through a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding that results in a disposition listed in paragraph (a) (ii) of this definition-

			(A) Has been determined in the performance of this contract to have caused serious bodily injury or death of any civilian or military personnel of the Government through gross negligence or with reckless disregard for the safety of such personnel; or

			(B) Has been determined to be liable for actions of a subcontractor of the Contractor that caused serious bodily injury or death of any civilian or military personnel of the Government through gross negligence or with reckless disregard for the safety of such personnel.

		(ii) Includes those incidents that have resulted in any of the following dispositions:

			(A) In a criminal proceeding, a conviction.

			(B) In a civil proceeding, a finding of fault or liability that results in the payment of a monetary fine, penalty, reimbursement, restitution, or damage of $5,000 or more.

			(C) In an administrative proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in-

				(1) The payment of a monetary fine or penalty of $5,000 or more; or

				(2) The payment of a reimbursement, restitution, or damages in excess of $100,000.

			(D) In a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding, a disposition of the matter by consent or compromise with an acknowledgment of fault by the Contractor if the proceeding could have led to any of the outcomes specified in subparagraphs (a)(ii)(A), (a) (ii)(B), or (a)(ii)(C).

			(E) In a DoD investigation of the Contractor or its subcontractors at any tier not subject to the jurisdiction of the U.S. courts, a final determination by the Secretary of Defense of Contractor or subcontractor fault (see DFARS 216.402-470).

	"Serious bodily injury" means a grievous physical harm that results in a permanent disability.

	(b) If, in the performance of this contract, the Contractor's or its subcontractor's actions cause serious bodily injury or death of civilian or military Government personnel, the Government may reduce or deny the award fee for the relevant award fee period in which the covered incident occurred, including the recovery of all or part of any award fees paid for any previous period during which the covered incident occurred.

(End of clause)
252.216-7005 Reserved.

252.216-7006 Reserved

252.216-7007 Economic Price Adjustment-Basic Steel, Aluminum, Brass, Bronze, or Copper Mill Products-Representation. 
As prescribed in 216.203-470(a)(2), use the following provision:

ECONOMIC PRICE ADJUSTMENT-BASIC STEEL, ALUMINUM, BRASS, BRONZE, OR COPPER MILL PRODUCTS-REPRESENTATION
(MAR 2012)

	(a) Definitions. The terms "established price" and "unit price," as used in this provision, have the meaning given in the clause 252.216-7000, Economic Price Adjustment--Basic Steel, Aluminum, Brass, Bronze, or Copper Mill Products.

	(b) By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that the unit price stated in this offer for ______________________(Identify the item) is not in excess of the offeror's established price in effect on the date set for opening of bids (or the contract date if this is to be a negotiated contract) for like quantities of the same item. This price is the net price after applying any applicable standard trade discounts offered by the offeror from its catalog, list, or schedule price.

(End of provision)

252.216-7008 Economic Price Adjustment-Wage Rates or Material Prices Controlled by a Foreign Government-Representation. 
As prescribed in 216.203-470(c)(2), use the following provision:

ECONOMIC PRICE ADJUSTMENT-WAGE RATES OR MATERIAL PRICES CONTROLLED BY A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT-REPRESENTATION
(MAR 2012)

	(a) By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that the prices set forth in this offer-

		(1) Are based on the wage rate(s) or material price(s) established and controlled by the government of __________________________ (Offeror insert name of host country); and

		(2) Do not include contingency allowances to pay for possible increases in wage rates or material prices.

(End of provision)

252.216-7009 Allowability of Legal Costs Incurred in Connection with a Whistleblower Proceeding. 
As prescribed in 216.305, use the following clause:

ALLOWABILITY OF LEGAL COSTS INCURRED IN CONNECTION WITH A
WHISTLEBLOWER PROCEEDING (DEC 2022)

Pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 3750, notwithstanding FAR clause 52.216-7, Allowable Cost and Payment-

	(a) The restrictions of FAR 31.205-47(b) on allowability of costs related to legal and other proceedings also apply to any proceeding brought by a contractor employee submitting a complaint under 10 U.S.C. 4701, entitled "Contractor employees: protection from reprisal for disclosure of certain information;" and

	(b) Costs incurred in connection with a proceeding that is brought by a contractor employee submitting a complaint under 10 U.S.C. 4701 are also unallowable if the result is an order to take corrective action under 10 U.S.C. 4701.

(End of clause)

252.216-7010 Postaward Debriefings for Task Orders and Delivery Orders. 
As prescribed at 216.505-70, use the following clause:

POSTAWARD DEBRIEFINGS FOR TASK ORDERS AND DELIVERY ORDERS
(OCT 2025)

	(a) Postaward debriefing.

		(1) Upon timely request, the Government will provide a written or oral postaward debriefing for task orders or delivery orders valued at $15 million or more to the Contractor, regardless of whether the Contractor's offer for the task order or delivery order was successful or unsuccessful, while protecting the confidential and proprietary information of other contractors. The request is considered timely if received within 3 days of notification of task order or delivery order award.

		(2) If a required postaward debriefing is provided-

			(i) The debriefed Contractor may submit additional written questions related to the required and provided debriefing within 2 business days after the date of the debriefing;

			(ii) The agency will respond in writing to timely submitted additional questions within 5 business days after receipt; and

			(iii) The postaward debriefing will not be considered to be concluded until the later of-

				(A) The date that the postaward debriefing is delivered, orally or in writing; or

				(B) If additional written questions related to the debriefing are timely received, the date the agency delivers its written response.

	(b) Task order or delivery order performance. The Government may suspend performance of or terminate the awarded task order or delivery order upon notice from the Government Accountability Office of a protest filed within the time periods listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this clause, whichever is later:

		(1) Within 10 days after the date a task order or delivery order is issued, where the value exceeds $25 million (10 U.S.C. 3406(e)).

		(2) Within 5 days after a debriefing date offered to the protestor under a timely debriefing request in accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 15.506 unless an earlier debriefing date is negotiated as a result.

		(3) Within 5 days after a postaward debriefing under FAR 15.506 is concluded in accordance with Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement 215.506-70(b).

(End of clause)
Attachment A1
DARS Tracking Number: 2026-O0045
Revolutionary Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Overhaul Part 16
Defense FAR Supplement (DFARS) Part 216


Page 1 of 2

