PGI 205-PUBLICIZING CONTRACT ACTIONS

PGI 205.0-SCOPE OF PART

PGI 205.002 Policy.

PGI 205.002-70 Preparation and transmittal of synopses.

	(a)  Notice numbering.

		(1)  For a particular procurement, when submitting notices at different stages of the acquisition (i.e., sources sought notice, pre-solicitation notice, award notice), ensure the solicitation number is entered exactly the same way in order to allow all to be retrieved when a search is performed.

		(2)  Use only alpha-numeric characters in the solicitation and award number data elements in the Governmentwide point of entry (GPE) at https://www.sam.gov.  Do not include hyphens, slashes, or other special characters.

	(b)  Small business events.  When advertising an event for small businesses, post a 'special notice' notice type and ensure the "title" data field begins with "Small Business Event".  This will enable the public to easily search the GPE using the small business event calendar on the website.]

PGI 205.1-PRESOLICITATION

PGI 205.101-70  Availability of DoD solicitations.

	(a)  Policy.  The Solicitation Module within the Procurement Integrated Enterprise Environment (PIEE), accessible at https://piee.eb.mil, provides DoD a secure and auditable mechanism to request and receive proposals or quotes from industry.

		(1)  The Solicitation Module-

			(i)  Provides a single face to industry for accessing DoD solicitations and attachments;

			(ii)  Ensures time stamps for submissions are collected electronically, and records are retained in the contract file;

			(iii)  Provides a means to upload very large and varied solicitation attachments;

			(iv)  Provides the ability to restrict access to a limited group of identified offerors; and

			(v)  Automatically posts the required synopsis or other presolicitation notice, solicitation, or combined synopsis and solicitation, as applicable, in the Governmentwide point of entry (GPE) (https://www.sam.gov) in accordance with FAR subpart 5.1.

	(b)  Procedures.  Effective October 1, 2026, unless an exception applies, contracting officers must use the Solicitation Module for publishing unclassified solicitations and for receiving offers and quotes.

		(1)  Exceptions.

			(i)  The Solicitation Module is not required for-

				(A)  Requests for offers or quotes when limiting competition to a single source;

				(B)  Actions using simplified acquisition procedures in accordance with FAR part 13;

				(C)  Actions using emergency acquisition flexibilities in accordance with FAR part 18; or

				(D)  Actions to be awarded outside the United States.

			(ii)  Do not use the Solicitation Module for the following types of actions until the capability is developed in the Module:

				(A)  Broad agency announcements.

				(B)  Requests for offers or quotes for task orders or delivery orders under indefinite-delivery type contracts, blanket purchase agreements, or basic ordering agreements.

PGI 205.103  Special Notices.

PGI 205.103-70  Definitization of equitable adjustments for construction.

Notice regarding timely definitization of equitable adjustments for change orders under construction contracts.  To obtain definitization data for requests for equitable adjustment to include in solicitations for construction contracts, access the Procurement Action Required Reporting Online Tools (PARROT)/Protest Tracker and REA module in the PIEE website at https://piee.eb.mil.  Search the PARROT Protest Tracker and REA module for the applicable military department or defense agency data and-

	(a)  If data exists, download the table and include it as an attachment to the solicitation notice in the GPE; or

	(b)  If no data exists, then include the following statement in the Description section of the solicitation notice: "No data is available regarding the timely definitization of equitable adjustments for change orders under construction contracts."  (See PGI 236.211) for reporting data on definitization of equitable adjustments.)

	(c)  Include a description of military department or defense agency policies or procedures, in addition to that outlined in FAR part 43, that apply to definitization of equitable adjustments for change orders under construction contracts.  This description may be provided in a notice by including an address of an agency-specific, publicly available website containing this information.

	(d)  If the military department or defense agency does not have agency-specific procedures, include the following statement:  "There are no agency-specific policies or procedures that apply to the definitization of equitable adjustments for change orders under construction contracts."

205.3-SYNOPSES OF CONTRACT AWARDS

205.302 Public Announcement.

	(a)  Requirement.

		(ii)  Departments and agencies must report contract actions-

			(A)  To the Office of the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs
			(B)  By the close of business the day before the date of the proposed award;

			(C)  Using report control symbol DD-LA-(AR) 1279;

			(D)  Including, as a minimum, the following-

				(1)  Contract data.  Contract number, modification number, or delivery order number, face value of this action, total cumulative face value of the contract, description of what is being bought, contract type, whether any of the buy was for foreign military sales (FMS) and identification of the FMS customer;

				(2)  Competition information.  Number of solicitations mailed and number of offers received;

				(3)  Contractor data.  Name, address, and place of performance (if significant work is performed at a different location);

				(4)  Funding data.  Type of appropriation and fiscal year of the funds, and whether the contract is multiyear (see FAR part 17); and

				(5)  Miscellaneous data.  Identification of the contracting office, the contracting office point of contact, known congressional interest, and the information release date.

		(iii)  Departments and agencies, in accordance with department/agency procedures and concurrent with the public announcement, must provide information similar to that required by paragraph (a)(ii) of this section to members of Congress in whose State or district the contractor is located, and the work is to be performed.

Attachment A2
DARS Tracking Number: 2026-O0003
Revolutionary Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Overhaul Part 5
Defense FAR Supplement (DFARS) Part 205


Page 2 of 2

