PGI 240-INFORMATION SECURITY AND SUPPLY CHAIN SECURITY

PGI 240.2-SECURITY PROHIBITIONS AND EXCLUSIONS

PGI 240.272  Prohibited Sources. 

PGI 240.272-2  Prohibition on acquisition of certain items from Communist Chinese military companies.

	(1)  The Department of State is the lead agency responsible for the regulations governing the export of defense articles, which are identified on the United States Munitions List.  The Department of State has issued the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, which implement the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751) and include the United States Munitions List.

	(2)  The official version of the International Traffic in Arms Regulations can be found in Title 22, Parts 120 through 130, of the Code of Federal Regulations (22 CFR 120-130), published by the U.S. Government Printing Office and available at https://catalog.gpo.gov/F/SGDS5TUGPX9MMUK3XX2JKHLK2XA9FQBKGK5H86HIG5R89LDY66-18351?func=full-set-set&set_number=002106&set_entry=000002&format=999.  The Department of State also publishes an on-line version at https://www.pmddtc.state.gov/ddtc_public?id=ddtc_kb_article_page&sys_id=24d528fddbfc930044f9ff621f961987#:~:text=The%20ITAR%20is%20available%20from%20the%20Government%20Printing,Federal%20Regulations%20%28CFR%29%20and%20as%20an%20updated%20e-document.

	(a)  Definitions.  In accordance with 22 CFR 121.8-

		(1)  A major component includes any assembled element that forms a portion of an end item without which the end item is inoperable.  Examples of major components are airframes, tail sections, transmissions, tank treads, and hulls;

		(2)  A minor component includes any assembled element of a major component; and

		(3)  Examples of parts are rivets, wires, and bolts.

	(d)  Identifying USML items.

		(1)  The 21 categories of items on the United States Munitions List (USML) can be found at https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-22/chapter-I/subchapter-M/part-121.  Where applicable, the categories also contain a statement with regard to the coverage of components and parts of items included in a category. For example, a category may include all components and parts of covered items, or only those components and parts specifically designed or modified for military use.

		(2)  In addition to the list of covered items, the USML provides explanation of terms needed to determine whether a particular item is or is not covered by the USML.

		(3)  Within DoD, the experts on export control and the USML are in the Defense Technology Security Administration (DTSA).

			(i)  Official authorities and responsibilities of DTSA are in DoD Directive 5105.72, available at https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodd/510572p.pdf.

			(ii)  Additional information on DTSA and a correspondence link are available at https://www.dtsa.mil/SitePages/default.aspx.

	(e)  Waiver of prohibition.

		(3(i))  Send a copy of the report to the Office of the Principal Director, Defense Pricing, Contracting, and Acquisition Policy (Contract Policy) (DPCAP/CP) via email at osd.pentagon.ousd-a-s.mbx.asda-dp-c-contractpolicy@mail.mil.

PGI 240.272-3  Prohibition on contracting or subcontracting with a firm that is owned or controlled by the government of a country that is a state sponsor of terrorism.

	(d)  Notification.  Forward any information indicating that a firm, a subsidiary of a firm, or any other firm that owns or controls the firm, may be owned or controlled by the government of a country that is a state sponsor of terrorism, through agency channels, to DPCAP/CP via email at osd.pentagon.ousd-a-s.mbx.asda-dp-c-contractpolicy@mail.mil.

PGI 240.272-4  Prohibition on acquisition of certain foreign commercial satellite services.

	(d)  Procedures.

		(1)  Forward any information required in accordance with 225.772-3 or requests for an exception to DPCAP/CP via email at osd.pentagon.ousd-a-s.mbx.asda-dp-c-contractpolicy@mail.mil.

		(2)  Consult with DPCAP/CP, as required in accordance with 225.772-3(c)(2), via email at osd.pentagon.ousd-a-s.mbx.asda-dp-c-contractpolicy@mail.mil.

PGI 240.3-SAFEGUARDING INFORMATION

PGI 240.370  Safeguarding Covered Defense Information and Cyber Incident Reporting. 

PGI 240.370-6  General.

	(a)  The contracting officer will be notified by the requiring activity when a solicitation is expected to result in a contract, task order, or delivery order that will involve-

		(1)  Covered defense information; or

		(2)  Operationally critical support.

	(b)  The contracting officer shall-

		(1)  Ensure that the requiring activity provides a work statement or specification that includes the identification of covered defense information or operationally critical support consistent with paragraph (a).

		(2)  Ensure that the solicitation and resultant contract, task order, or delivery order includes the requirement (such as a contract data requirements list), as provided by the requiring activity, for the contractor to apply markings, when appropriate, on covered defense information.

PGI 240.370-7  Safeguarding controls and requirements.

	(a)  When an offeror proposes to vary from any of the security requirements specified by National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publication (SP) 800-171, "Protecting Controlled Unclassified Information in Nonfederal Information Systems and Organizations," in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of the solicitation provision at DFARS 252.204-7008, or in accordance with paragraphs (b)(2)(ii)(B) of DFARS clause 252.204-7012, the contracting officer shall submit the offeror's explanation of the proposed variance to the DoD Chief Information Officer via email at osd.dibcsia@mail.mil for adjudication.

	(b)  For additional information on safeguarding controls and requirements, see the Frequently Asked Questions document at http://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/pdi/network_penetration_reporting_and_contracting.html.

PGI 240.370-8  Cyber incident and compromise reporting.

	(a)  When a cyber incident is reported by a contractor, the DoD Cyber Crime Center (DC3) will send an unclassified encrypted email containing the cyber incident report to the contracting officer(s) identified on the Incident Collection Format (ICF).  The DC3 may request the contracting officer send a digitally signed e-mail to DC3.

		(1)  The procuring contracting officer (PCO) shall notify the requiring activities that have contracts identified in the ICF.  In cases where an administrative contracting officer (ACO) receives the cyber incident report, in lieu of the PCO, the ACO shall notify the PCO for each affected contract, who will then notify the requiring activity.

		(2)  In cases of cyber incidents involving multiple contracts, the DoD
components will collaboratively designate a single contracting officer to coordinate additional actions required of the contractor, on behalf of the affected DoD components.
The requiring activity will notify the contracting officer once a lead is designated.

		(3)  If the requiring activity requests an assessment of compliance with the requirements of the clause at DFARS 252.204-7012 related to the cyber incident, the
contracting officer shall-

			(i)  Consult with the DoD component Chief Information Officer (CIO)/cyber security office;

			(ii)  Request a description of the contractor's implementation of the security
requirements in NIST SP 800-171, "Protecting Controlled Unclassified Information in
Nonfederal Information Systems and Organizations" (see http://dx.doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-171) in order to support evaluation of whether any of the controls were inadequate, or if any of the controls were not implemented at the time of the incident; and

			(iii)  Provide a copy of the assessment of contractor compliance to the requiring activity, the DoD CIO at osd.dibcsia@mail.mil, and the other contracting officers listed in the cyber incident report.

	(b)  When requested by the contractor, the contracting officer shall provide the contractor with the "Instructions for Malware Submission" document available at http://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/pdi/docs/Instructions_for_Malware_Submission.docx.  The contracting officer should never receive malicious software directly from the contractor.

	(c)  If the requiring activity requests access to contractor information or equipment, in accordance with DFARS 252.204-7012(f), the contracting officer shall provide a written request to the contractor.

	(d)  For additional information on cyber incident reporting, see the Frequently Asked Questions document at http://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/pdi/network_penetration_reporting_and_contracting.html.
PGI 204.7303-4 DoD damage assessment activities.

PGI 240.370-9  DoD damage assessment activities.

	(a)  Prior to initiating damage assessment activities, the contracting officer shall verify that any contract identified in the cyber incident report includes the clause at DFARS 252.204-7012.  If the contracting officer determines that a contract identified in the report does not contain the clause, the contracting officer shall notify the requiring activity that damage assessment activities, if required, may be determined to constitute a change to the contract.

	(b)  In cases of cyber incidents involving multiple contracts, a single contracting officer will be designated to coordinate with the contractor regarding media submission (see 204.7303-3(a)(2)).

	(c)  If the requiring activity requests the contracting officer to obtain media, as defined in DFARS 252.204-7012, from the contractor, the contracting officer shall-

		(1)  Provide a written request for the media;

		(2)  Provide the contractor with the "Instructions for Media Submission" document available at http://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/dars/pgi/docs/Instructions_for_Submitting_Media.docx; and

		(3)  Provide a copy of the request to DC3, electronically via email at dcise@dc3.mil, and the requiring activity.

	(d)  If the contracting officer is notified by the requiring activity that media are not required, the contracting officer shall notify the contractor and simultaneously provide a copy of the notice to DC3 and the requiring activity.

	(e)  The contracting officer shall document the action taken as required by paragraph (c) or (d) of this section, in the contract file.

	(f)  Upon receipt of the contractor media, DC3 will confirm receipt in writing to the contractor and the requesting contracting officer.

	(g)  Once the requiring activity determines that the damage assessment activities are complete, the requiring activity will provide the contracting officer with a report documenting the actions taken to close out the cyber incident.

PGI 240.372-Safeguarding Classified Information Within Industry.

PGI 240.372-1  General.

	(1)  The use of "Not Releasable to Foreign Nationals" (NOFORN) caveat on Department of Defense (DoD) Information, to include contract documents, shall not be applied to non-intelligence information except for Naval Nuclear Propulsion Information and the National Disclosure Policy document (NDP-1).

	(2)  Agencies shall not restrict procurements on the basis of foreign origin but rather on the level of security clearance required by industry to submit an offer and perform on the contract.

PGI 240.372-2  Responsibilities of contracting officers.

	(1)  Consistent with the requirements at FAR 4.403, contracting officers shall ensure that solicitations, to include any broad agency announcement (BAA), commercial solutions opening (CSO), or notice to industry that requires industry access to classified information and/or controlled unclassified information (see policy memos), shall contain one or more of the following:

		(i)  Draft DoD Form DD 254, DoD Contract Security Classification Specification.  For guidance on completing the DD 254, see "Instructions for Completing DD Form 254, Department of Defense Contract Security Classification Specification" at https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/forms/dd/dd0254-Inst.pdf.  For information on the National Industrial Security Program Contract Classification System, see https://www.dcsa.mil/is/nccs/.

		(ii)  The clause at FAR 52.204-2, Security Requirements.

		(iii)  Detailed agency instructions for industry requirements to request access to classified information and/or controlled unclassified information.  Agency instructions shall clearly reference and be in accordance with the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (NISPOM) (32 CFR part 117).

		(iv)  The following is a template of agency instructions to industry:

"Offerors must have a valid U.S. security clearance of [to be filled in by the contracting officer] or higher in order to respond to this RFP (Announcement), because the RFP (Announcement) includes an annex (information) classified at the [to be filled in by the contracting officer] level which will be released only to offerors possessing the appropriate clearance.  All classified material must be handled in accordance with the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (NISPOM) (32 CFR part 117)."

	(2)  Fundamental research project determination.

		(i)  Projects being scoped as fundamental research may include the entire contract effort or a specified portion of the statement of work, and must be documented in the written determination and in the contract.

		(ii)  The determination of fundamental research shall occur when the project is added to the statement of work, either prior to award or during a contract modification that modified the statement of work.

		(iii)  Fundamental research is defined in the USD(AT&L) memorandum on Fundamental Research, dated May 24, 2010.

		(iv)  See clause 252.204-7000(a)(3), concerning disclosure of information for fundamental research projects.
Attachment A2
DARS Tracking Number: 2026-O0025
Revolutionary Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Overhaul Part 40
Defense FAR Supplement (DFARS) Part 240



Page 1 of 7


