PART 246-QUALITY ASSURANCE

SUBPART 246.1-GENERAL

246.101  Definitions.
As used in this subpart-

"Discipline Working Group"  is defined in the clause at 252.246-7004, Safety of Facilities, Infrastructure, and Equipment for Military Operations.

246.102  Policy.

Departments and agencies must also-

	(1)  Develop and manage a systematic, cost-effective Government contract quality assurance program to ensure that contract performance conforms to specified requirements.  Apply Government quality assurance to all contracts for services and products designed, developed, purchased, produced, stored, distributed, operated, maintained, or disposed of by contractors.
      
	(2)  Conduct quality audits to ensure the quality of products and services meet contractual requirements.
      
	(3)  Base the type and extent of Government contract quality assurance actions on the particular acquisition.
      
	(4)  Provide contractors the maximum flexibility in establishing efficient and effective quality programs to meet contractual requirements.  Contractor quality programs may be modeled on military, commercial, national, or international quality standards.
      
246.103  Contracting office responsibilities.

	(1)  The contracting office must coordinate with the quality assurance activity before changing any quality requirement.
      
	(2)  The activity responsible for technical requirements may prepare instructions covering the type and extent of Government inspections for acquisitions that are complex, have critical applications, or have unusual requirements.  Follow the procedures at PGI 246.103(2) for preparation of instructions.
      
SUBPART 246.2-CONTRACT QUALITY REQUIREMENTS

246.201  General.

246.201-70  Subsistence.
See PGI 246.201-70 for contract quality requirements for subsistence.

246.201-71  Aircraft.
See PGI 246.201-71 for contracting office responsibilities related to aircraft.

246.202  Types of contract quality requirements.

246.202-4  Higher-level contract quality requirements.

	(1)  Higher-level contract quality requirements are used in addition to a standard inspection requirement.
      
	(2)  Higher-level contract quality requirements, including nongovernment quality system standards adopted to meet DoD needs, are listed in the DoD Index of Specifications and Standards.
      
246.270  Safety of facilities, infrastructure, and equipment for military operations.

246.270-1  Scope.

This section establishes policies and procedures intended to ensure the safety and habitability of facilities, infrastructure, and equipment acquired for use by DoD military or civilian personnel during military operations performed outside the United States, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands (section 807 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Pub. L. 111-84).

246.270-2  Policy.

	(a)  Contracts (including task and delivery orders) for the construction, installation, repair, maintenance, or operation of facilities, infrastructure, and equipment configured for occupancy, including but not limited to, existing host nation facilities, new construction, and relocatable buildings acquired for use by DoD military or civilian personnel, must require a pre-occupancy safety and habitability inspection.
   
	(b)  To minimize safety and health risks, each contract covered by this policy must require the contractor's compliance with the Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 1-200-01 and its referenced standards for-
   
		(1)  Fire protection;

		(2)  Structural integrity;

	(3)  Electrical systems;

	(4)  Plumbing;

	(5)  Water treatment;

	(6)  Waste disposal; and

	(7)  Telecommunications networks.
   
	(c)  Existing host nation facilities constructed to standards equivalent to or more stringent than UFC 1-200-01 are acceptable upon a written determination of the acceptability of the standards by the Discipline Working Group.
   
	(d)  Inspections to ensure compliance with UFC 1-200-01 standards must be conducted in accordance with the inspection clause of the contract.
   
246.270-3  Exceptions.
The combatant commander may waive compliance with the foregoing standards when it is impracticable to comply with such standards under prevailing operational conditions.

246.270-4  Contract clause.

Insert the clause at 252.246-7004, Safety of Facilities, Infrastructure, and Equipment for Military Operations, in solicitations and contracts, including solicitations and contracts using FAR part 12 procedures for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services, for the construction, installation, repair, maintenance, or operation of facilities, infrastructure, or for equipment configured for occupancy, planned for use by DoD military or civilian personnel during military operations.

SUBPART 246.3-CONTRACT CLAUSES

246.370  Notification of potential safety issues.

	(a)  Insert the clause at 252.246-7003, Notification of Potential Safety Issues, in solicitations and contracts, including solicitations and contracts using FAR part 12 procedures for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services, for the acquisition of-
   
		(1)  Repairable or consumable parts identified as critical safety items;
      
		(2)  Systems and subsystems, assemblies, and subassemblies integral to a system; or
      
		(3)  Repair, maintenance, logistics support, or overhaul services for systems and subsystems, assemblies, subassemblies, and parts integral to a system.
      
	(b)  Follow the procedures at PGI 246.370 for the handling of notifications received under the clause at 252.246-7003.
   
SUBPART 246.4-GOVERNMENT CONTRACT QUALITY ASSURANCE

246.401  General.

The requirement for a quality assurance surveillance plan must be addressed and documented in the contract file for each contract except for those awarded using simplified acquisition procedures.  For contracts for services, the contracting officer should prepare a quality assurance surveillance plan to facilitate assessment of contractor performance, see 237.172. For contracts for supplies, the contracting officer should address the need for a quality assurance surveillance plan.

246.402  Government contract quality assurance at source.

Do not require Government contract quality assurance at source for contracts or delivery orders valued below $400,000, unless-

	(1)  Mandated by DoD regulation;
      
	(2)  Required by a memorandum of agreement between the acquiring department or agency and the contract administration agency; or
      
	(3)  The contracting officer determines that-
      
		(i)  Contract technical requirements are significant (e.g., the technical requirements include drawings, test procedures, or performance requirements);
         
		(ii)  The product being acquired-
         
			(A)  Has critical characteristics;
            
			(B)  Has specific features identified that make Government contract quality assurance at source necessary; or
            
			(C)  Has specific acquisition concerns identified that make Government contract quality assurance at source necessary; and
            
		(iii)  The contract is being awarded to-
         
			(A)  A manufacturer or producer; or
            
			(B)  A non-manufacturer or non-producer and specific Government verifications have been identified as necessary and feasible to perform.
            
246.404  Government contract quality assurance for acquisitions at or below the simplified acquisition threshold.
Do not require Government contract quality assurance at source for contracts or delivery orders valued at or below the simplified acquisition threshold unless the criteria at 246.402 have been met.

246.406  Foreign governments.

	(1)  Quality assurance among North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) countries.

		(i)  NATO Standardization Agreement (STANAG) 4107, Mutual Acceptance of Government Quality Assurance and Usage of the Allied Quality Assurance Publications-
         
			(A)  Contains the processes, procedures, terms, and conditions under which one NATO member nation will perform quality assurance for another NATO member nation or NATO organization;
            
			(B)  Standardizes the development, updating, and application of the Allied Quality Assurance Publications; and
            
			(C)  Has been ratified by the United States and other nations in NATO with certain reservations identified in STANAG 4107.
            
		(ii)  Departments and agencies must follow STANAG 4107 when-
         
			(A)  Asking a NATO member nation to perform quality assurance; or
            
			(B)  Performing quality assurance when requested by a NATO member nation or NATO organization.
            
	(2)  International military sales (non-NATO).  Departments and agencies must-

		(i)  Perform quality assurance services on international military sales contracts or in accordance with existing agreements;
         
		(ii)  Inform host or U.S. Government personnel and contractors on the use of quality assurance publications; and
         
		(iii)  Delegate quality assurance to the host government when satisfactory services are available.
         
	(3)  Reciprocal quality assurance agreements.  A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with a foreign country may contain an annex that provides for the reciprocal performance of quality assurance services.  MOUs should be checked to determine whether such an annex exists for the country where a defense contract will be performed.  (See Subpart 225.8 for more information about MOUs.)
      
246.407-70  Nonconforming supplies or services.

	(a)  If nonconforming material or services are discovered after acceptance, the defect appears to be the fault of the contractor, any warranty has expired, and there are no other contractual remedies, the contracting officer-
		
		(1)  Must notify the contractor in writing of the nonconforming material or service;

		(2)  Must request that the contractor repair or replace the material, or perform the service, at no cost to the Government; and

		(3)  May accept consideration if offered.  For guidance on solicitation of a refund, see subpart 242.71. 

	(b)  The head of the design control activity is the approval authority for acceptance of any nonconforming aviation or ship critical safety items or nonconforming modification, repair, or overhaul of such items (see 209.270 ). 

	(c)  Authority for acceptance of minor nonconformances in aviation or ship critical safety items may be delegated as determined appropriate by the design control activity.  See additional information at PGI 246.407.
   
246.470  Government contract quality assurance actions.

246.470-1  Assessment of additional costs.

	(a)  Under the clause at FAR 52.246-2, Inspection of Supplies-Fixed-Price, after considering the factors in paragraph (c) of this section, the quality assurance representative (QAR) may believe that the assessment of additional costs is warranted.  If so, the representative must recommend that the contracting officer take the necessary action and provide a recommendation as to the amount of additional costs.  Costs are based on the applicable Federal agency, foreign military sale, or public rate in effect at the time of the delay, reinspection, or retest.
   
	(b)  If the contracting officer agrees with the QAR, the contracting officer must-
   
		(1)  Notify the contractor, in writing, of the determination to exercise the Government's right under the clause at FAR 52.246-2, Inspection of Supplies-Fixed-Price; and
      
		(2)  Demand payment of the costs in accordance with the collection procedures contained in FAR Subpart 32.6.
      
	(c)  In making a determination to assess additional costs, the contracting officer must consider-
   
		(1)  The frequency of delays, reinspection, or retest under both current and prior contracts;
      
		(2)  The cause of such delay, reinspection, or retest; and
      
		(3)  The expense of recovering the additional costs.
      
246.470-2  Quality evaluation data.
The contract administration office must establish a system for the collection, evaluation, and use of the types of quality evaluation data specified in PGI 246.470-2.

246.471  Authorizing shipment of supplies.

	(a) General.
   
		(1)  Ordinarily, a representative of the contract administration office signs or stamps the shipping papers that accompany Government source-inspected supplies to release them for shipment.  This is done for both prime and subcontracts.
      
		(2)  An alternative procedure (see paragraph (b) of this section) permits the contractor to assume the responsibility for releasing the supplies for shipment.
      
		(3)  The alternative procedure may include prime contractor release of supplies inspected at a subcontractor's facility.
      
		(4)  The use of the alternative procedure releases DoD manpower to perform technical functions by eliminating routine signing or stamping of the papers accompanying each shipment.
      
	(b) Alternative Procedures-Contract Release for Shipment.
   
		(1)  For foreign military sales contracts, do not use alternative procedures.
      
		(2)  The contract administration office may authorize, in writing, the contractor to release supplies for shipment when-
      
			(i)  The stamping or signing of the shipping papers by a representative of the contract administration office interferes with the operation of the Government contract quality assurance program or takes too much of the Government representative's time;
         
			(ii)  There is sufficient continuity of production to permit the Government to establish a systematic and continuing evaluation of the contractor's control of quality; and
         
			(iii)  The contractor has a record of satisfactory quality, including that pertaining to preparation for shipment.
         
		(3)  The contract administration office must withdraw, in writing, the authorization when there is an indication that the conditions in paragraph (b)(2) of this section no longer exist.
      
		(4)  When the alternative procedure is used, require the contractor to-
      
			(i)  Type or stamp, and sign, the following statement on the required copy or copies of the shipping paper(s), or on an attachment-
         
				The supplies in this shipment- 

1.  Have been subjected to and have passed all examinations and 
tests required by the contract; 

2.  Were shipped in accordance with authorized shipping instructions; 

3.  Conform to the quality, identity, and condition called for by the contract; and 

4.  Are of the quantity shown on this document. 

	This shipment was- 

1.  Released in accordance with section 246.471 of the Defense FAR Supplement; and 

2.  Authorized by (name and title of the authorized representative of the contract administration office) in a letter dated (date of authorizing letter).  (Signature and title of contractor's designated official.)

	(ii)  Release and process, in accordance with established instructions, the DD Form 250, Material Inspection and Receiving Report, or other authorized receiving report.
         
246.472  Inspection stamping.

	(a)  See PGI 246.472 (a) for use of DoD inspection stamps.
   
	(b)  Policies and procedures regarding the use of National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) quality status stamps are contained in NASA publications.  When requested by NASA centers, the DoD inspector must use NASA quality status stamps in accordance with current NASA requirements.
   
SUBPART 246.5-ACCEPTANCE

246.504  Certificate of conformance.

Before authorizing a certificate of conformance for aviation or ship critical safety items, obtain the concurrence of the head of the design control activity (see 209.270 ).

SUBPART 246.6-MATERIAL INSPECTION AND RECEIVING REPORTS

246.601  General.

See Appendix F, Material Inspection and Receiving Report, for procedures and instructions for the use, preparation, and distribution of-

	(1)  The Material Inspection and Receiving Report (DD Form 250 series); and
      
	(2)  Supplier's commercial shipping/packing lists used to evidence Government contract quality assurance.
      
SUBPART 246.7-WARRANTIES

246.702  General.

246.702-70  Definitions.
As used in this subpart-

	"Acceptance," as used in the warranty clauses at FAR 52.246-17, Warranty of Supplies of a Noncomplex Nature; FAR 52.246-18, Warranty of Supplies of a Complex Nature; FAR 52.246-19, Warranty of Systems and Equipment Under Performance Specifications or Design Criteria; and FAR 52.246-20, Warranty of Services, includes the execution of an official document (e.g., DD Form 250, Material Inspection and Receiving Report) by an authorized representative of the Government.

	"Defect" means any condition or characteristic in any supply or service furnished by the contractor under the contract that is not in compliance with the requirements of the contract.

	"Enterprise" means the entity (e.g., a manufacturer or vendor) responsible for granting the warranty and/or assigning unique item identifiers to serialized warranty items.

	"Enterprise identifier" means a code that is uniquely assigned to an enterprise by an issuing agency.

	"Issuing agency" means an organization responsible for assigning a globally unique identifier to an enterprise, as indicated in the Register of Issuing Agency Codes for International Standards Organization/International Electrotechnical Commission 15459, located at http://www.aimglobal.org/?Reg_Authority15459.

	"Serialized item" means each item produced is assigned a serial number that is unique among all the collective tangible items produced by the enterprise, or each item of a particular part, lot, or batch number is assigned a unique serial number within that part, lot, or batch number assignment within the enterprise identifier.  The enterprise is responsible for ensuring unique serialization within the enterprise identifier or within the part, lot, or batch numbers, and that serial numbers, once assigned, are never used again.

	"Unique item identifier" means a set of data elements marked on an item that is globally unique and unambiguous.

	"Warranty tracking" means the ability to trace a warranted item from delivery through completion of the effectivity of the warranty.

246.703  Criteria for use of warranties.

246.703-1  Authority for use of warranties.
      
	(1)  The chief of the contracting office must approve use of a warranty, except in acquisitions for- 
      
		(i)  Commercial products or commercial services (see FAR part 12);
         
		(ii)  Technical data, unless the warranty provides for extended liability (see 246.708 );
         
		(iii)  Supplies and services in fixed-price type contracts containing quality assurance provisions that reference higher-level contract quality requirements (see 246.202-4 ); or
         
		(iv)  Supplies and services in construction contracts when using the warranties that are contained in Federal, military, or construction guide specifications.
         
	(2)  The chief of the contracting office must approve the use of a warranty only when the benefits are expected to outweigh the cost.
      
246.705  Limitations.

	(a)  In addition to the exceptions provided in FAR 46.705(a), warranties in the clause at 252.246-7XXX Warranty of Data, may be used in cost-reimbursement contracts.
   
246.706  Warranty terms and conditions.

	(b)(5) Markings.  For other than commercial products, use MIL-STD-129, Marking for Shipments and Storage, and MIL-STD-130, Identification Marking of U.S. Military Property, when marking warranty items.
   
246.708  Warranties of data.

Obtain warranties on technical data when practicable and cost effective.  Consider the factors in FAR 46.703 in deciding whether to obtain warranties of technical data.  Consider the following in deciding whether to use extended liability provisions-

	(1)  The likelihood that correction or replacement of the nonconforming data, or a price adjustment, will not give adequate protection to the Government; and
      
	(2)  The effectiveness of the additional remedy as a deterrent against furnishing nonconforming data.
      
246.710  Contract clauses.

	(1)  Insert a clause substantially the same as the basic or one of the alternates of the clause at 252.246-7998, Warranty of Data, in solicitations and contracts that include the clause at 252.227-7989 Rights in Technical Data, Computer Software, and Computer Software Documentation-Other Than Commercial Products or Commercial Services, , when there is a need for greater protection or period of liability than provided by the inspection and warranty clauses prescribed in FAR part 46.
      
		(i)  Insert the basic clause in solicitations and contracts that are not firm-fixed price or fixed-price incentive.
         
		(ii)  Insert alternate I in fixed-price-incentive solicitations and contracts.
         
		(iii)  Insert alternate II in firm-fixed-price solicitations and contracts.
         
	(2)  Insert the clause at 252.246-7002 , Warranty of Construction (Germany), instead of the clause at FAR 52.246-21, Warranty of Construction, in solicitations and contracts for construction when a fixed-price contract will be awarded and contract performance will be in Germany.
      
	(3)  When the solicitation includes the clause at 252.211-7003 , Item Unique Identification and Valuation, which is prescribed in 211.274-5 (a), and it is anticipated that the resulting contract will include a warranty for serialized items-
      
		(i)  Insert the provision at 252.246-7005 , Notice of Warranty Tracking of Serialized Items, in the solicitation if the Government does not specify a warranty and offerors will be required to enter data with the offer;
         
		(ii)  Insert the clause at 252.246-7006 , Warranty Tracking of Serialized Items, in the solicitation and contract; and
         
		(iii)  Include the following warranty attachments, available at https://www.pdrep.csd.disa.mil/pdrep_files/other/wsr.htm, in the solicitation and contract and see 246.710-70:
         
			(A)  Warranty Tracking Information.
            
			(B)  Source of Repair Instructions.
            
246.710-70  Warranty attachments.
Follow the procedures at PGI 246.710-70 regarding warranty attachments.

SUBPART 246.8-CONTRACTOR LIABILITY FOR LOSS OF OR DAMAGE TO PROPERTY OF THE GOVERNMENT

246.870  Contractors Counterfeit Electronic Part Detection and Avoidance.

246.870-0  Scope. 

This section-

	(a)  Partially implements section 818(c) and (e) of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year (FY) 2012 (Pub. L. 112-81), section 817 of the NDAA for FY 2015 (Pub. L. 113-291) and section 885 of the NDAA for 2016 (Pub. L. 114-92); and
   
	(b)  Prescribes policy and procedures for preventing counterfeit electronic parts and suspect counterfeit electronic parts from entering the supply chain when procuring electronic parts or end items, components, parts, or assemblies that contain electronic parts.
   
246.870-1  Definition.
As used in this subpart-

	"Authorized supplier," means a supplier, distributor, or an aftermarket manufacturer with a contractual arrangement with, or the express written authority of, the original manufacturer or current design activity to buy, stock, repackage, sell, or distribute the part.
      
246.870-2  Policy.

	(a)  Sources of electronic parts.
   
		(1)  Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the Government requires contractors and subcontractors at all tiers, to-
      
			(i)  Obtain electronic parts that are in production by the original manufacturer or an authorized aftermarket manufacturer or currently available in stock from-
         
				(A)  The original manufacturers of the parts;

				(B)  Their authorized suppliers; or
            
				(C)  Suppliers that obtain such parts exclusively from the original manufacturers of the parts or their authorized suppliers; and
            
			(ii)  Obtain electronic parts that are not in production by the original manufacturer or an authorized aftermarket manufacturer, and that are not currently available in stock from a source listed in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, from suppliers identified by the Contractor as contractor-approved suppliers, provided that-
         
				(A)  For identifying and approving such contractor-approved suppliers, the contractor uses established counterfeit prevention industry standards and processes (including inspection, testing, and authentication), such as the DoD-adopted standards at https://assist.dla.mil;
            
				(B)  The contractor assumes responsibility for the authenticity of parts provided by such contractor-approved suppliers (see 231.205-71); and
            
				(C)  The selection of such contractor-approved suppliers is subject to review, audit, and approval by the Government, generally in conjunction with a contractor purchasing system review or other surveillance of purchasing practices by the contract administration office, or if the Government obtains credible evidence that a contractor-approved supplier has provided counterfeit parts.  The contractor may proceed with the acquisition of electronic parts from a contractor-approved supplier unless otherwise notified by DoD.
            
		(2)  The Government requires contractors and subcontractors to comply with the notification, inspection, testing, and authentication requirements of paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of the clause at 252.246-7008, Sources of Electronic Parts, if the contractor-
      
			(i)  Obtains an electronic part from-
         
				(A)  A source other than any of the sources identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, due to nonavailability from such sources; or
            
				(B)  A subcontractor (other than the original manufacturer) that refuses to accept flowdown of this clause; or
            
			(ii)  Cannot confirm that an electronic part is new or not previously used and that it has not been comingled in supplier new production or stock with used, refurbished, reclaimed, or returned parts.
         
		(3)  Contractors and subcontractors are still required to comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable, if-
      
			(i)  Authorized to purchase electronic parts from the Federal Supply Schedule;
         
			(ii)  Purchasing electronic parts from suppliers accredited by the Defense Microelectronics Activity; or
         
			(iii)  Requisitioning electronic parts from Government inventory/stock under the authority of the clause at 252.251-7000 , Ordering from Government Supply Sources.
         
				(A)  The cost of any required inspection, testing, and authentication of such parts may be charged as a direct cost.
            
				(B)  The Government is responsible for the authenticity of the requisitioned electronic parts.  If any such part is subsequently found to be counterfeit or suspect counterfeit, the Government will-
            
					(1)  Promptly replace such part at no charge; and
                  
					(2)  Consider an adjustment in the contract schedule to the extent that replacement of the counterfeit or suspect counterfeit electronic parts caused a delay in performance.
                  
	(b)  Contractor counterfeit electronic part detection and avoidance system.
   
		(1)  Contractors that are subject to the cost accounting standards and that supply electronic parts or products that include electronic parts, and their subcontractors that supply electronic parts or products that include electronic parts, are required to establish and maintain an acceptable counterfeit electronic part detection and avoidance system.  Failure to do so may result in disapproval of the purchasing system by the contracting officer and/or withholding of payments (see 252.244-7001 , Contractor Purchasing System Administration).
      
		(2)  System criteria.  A counterfeit electronic part detection and avoidance system must include risk-based policies and procedures that address, at a minimum, the following areas (see the clause at 252.246-7007 , Contractor Counterfeit Electronic Part Detection and Avoidance System):
      
			(i)  The training of personnel.
         
			(ii)  The inspection and testing of electronic parts, including criteria for acceptance and rejection.
         
			(iii)  Processes to abolish counterfeit parts proliferation.
         
			(iv)  Processes for maintaining electronic part traceability.
         
			(v)  Use of suppliers in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
         
			(vi) The reporting and quarantining of counterfeit electronic parts and suspect counterfeit electronic parts.
         
			(vii)  Methodologies to identify suspect counterfeit electronic parts and to rapidly determine if a suspect counterfeit electronic part is, in fact, counterfeit.
         
			(viii)  Design, operation, and maintenance of systems to detect and avoid counterfeit electronic parts and suspect counterfeit electronic parts.
         
			(ix)  Flow down of counterfeit detection and avoidance requirements.
         
			(x)  Process for keeping continually informed of current counterfeiting information and trends.
         
			(xi)  Process for screening the Government-Industry Data Exchange Program (GIDEP) reports and other credible sources of counterfeiting information.
         
			(xii)  Control of obsolete electronic parts.
         
246.870-3  Contract clauses.

	(a)(1)  Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, insert the clause at 252.246-7007, Contractor Counterfeit Electronic Part Detection and Avoidance System, in solicitations and contracts when procuring-
   
			(i)  Electronic parts;
         
			(ii)  End items, components, parts, or assemblies containing electronic parts; or
         
			(iii)  Services, if the contractor will supply electronic parts or components, parts, or assemblies containing electronic parts as part of the service.
         
		(2)  Do not use the clause in solicitations and contracts that are set aside for small business.
      
	(b)  Insert the clause at 252.246-7008 , Sources of Electronic Parts, in solicitations and contracts, including solicitations and contracts using FAR part 12 procedures for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services, when procuring-
   
		(1)  Electronic parts;
      
		(2)  End items, components, parts, or assemblies containing electronic parts; or
      
		(3)  Services, if the contractor will supply electronic parts or components, parts, or assemblies containing electronic parts as part of the service.
      
* * * * *

PART 252-SOLICITATION PROVISIONS AND CONTRACT CLAUSES

* * * * *

SUBPART 252.2-TEXT OF PROVISIONS AND CLAUSES

* * * * *

252.246-7000  [Reserved]

252.246-7998  Warranty of data. (DEVIATION 2026-O0035)
Basic.  As prescribed in 246.710(1) and (1)(i), use the following clause:

WARRANTY OF DATA-BASIC (DEVIATION 2026-O0035) (FEB 2026)

	(a)  Definition-Technical data has the same meaning as given in the clause at 252.227-7989 Rights in Technical Data, Computer Software, and Computer Software Documentation-Other Than Commercial Products or Commercial Services.

	(b)  Warranty.  Notwithstanding inspection and acceptance by the Government of technical data furnished under this contract, and notwithstanding any provision of this contract concerning the conclusiveness of acceptance, the Contractor warrants that all technical data delivered under this contract will at the time of delivery conform with the specifications and all other requirements of this contract.  The warranty period shall extend for three years after completion of the delivery of the line item of data (as identified in DD Form 1423, Contract Data Requirements List) of which the data forms a part; or any longer period specified in the contract.

	(c)  Contractor notification.  The Contractor agrees to notify the Contracting Officer in writing immediately of any breach of the above warranty which the Contractor discovers within the warranty period.

	(d)  Remedies.  The following remedies shall apply to all breaches of the warranty, whether the Contractor notifies the Contracting Officer in accordance with paragraph (c) of this clause or if the Government notifies the Contractor of the breach in writing within the warranty period:

		(1)  Within a reasonable time after such notification, the Contracting Officer may-

			(i)  By written notice, direct the Contractor to correct or replace at the Contractor's expense the nonconforming technical data promptly; or

			(ii)  If the Contracting Officer determines that the Government no longer has a requirement for correction or replacement of the data, or that the data can be more reasonably corrected by the Government, inform the Contractor by written notice that the Government elects a price or fee adjustment instead of correction or replacement.

		(2)  If the Contractor refuses or fails to comply with a direction under paragraph (d) (1)(i) of this clause, the Contracting Officer may, within a reasonable time of the refusal or failure-

			(i)  By contract or otherwise, correct or replace the nonconforming technical data and charge the cost to the Contractor; or

			(ii)  Elect a price or fee adjustment instead of correction or replacement.

		(3)  The remedies in this clause represent the only way to enforce the Government's rights under this clause.

	(e)  The provisions of this clause apply anew to that portion of any corrected or replaced technical data furnished to the Government under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this clause.

(End of clause)

	Alternate I.  As prescribed in 246.710(1) and (1)(ii), use the following clause, which uses a different paragraph (d)(3) than the basic clause:

WARRANTY OF DATA-ALTERNATE I (DEVIATION 2026-O0035) (FEB 2026)

	(a)  Definition.  Technical data has the same meaning as given in the clause at 252.227-7989 Rights in Technical Data, Computer Software, and Computer Software Documentation-Other Than Commercial Products or Commercial Services."

	(b)  Warranty.  Notwithstanding inspection and acceptance by the Government of technical data furnished under this contract, and notwithstanding any provision of this contract concerning the conclusiveness of acceptance, the Contractor warrants that all technical data delivered under this contract will at the time of delivery conform with the specifications and all other requirements of this contract.  The warranty period shall extend for three years after completion of the delivery of the line item of data (as identified in DD Form 1423, Contract Data Requirements List) of which the data forms a part; or any longer period specified in the contract.

	(c)  Contractor Notification.  The Contractor agrees to notify the Contracting Officer in writing immediately of any breach of the above warranty which the Contractor discovers within the warranty period.

	(d)  Remedies.  The following remedies shall apply to all breaches of the warranty, whether the Contractor notifies the Contracting Officer in accordance with paragraph (c) of this clause or if the Government notifies the Contractor of the breach in writing within the warranty period:

		(1)  Within a reasonable time after such notification, the Contracting Officer may-

			(i)  By written notice, direct the Contractor to correct or replace at the Contractor's expense the nonconforming technical data promptly; or

			(ii)  If the Contracting Officer determines that the Government no longer has a requirement for correction or replacement of the data, or that the data can be more reasonably corrected by the Government, inform the Contractor by written notice that the Government elects a price or fee adjustment instead of correction or replacement.

		(2)  If the Contractor refuses or fails to comply with a direction under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this clause, the Contracting Officer may, within a reasonable time of the refusal or failure-

			(i)  By contract or otherwise, correct or replace the nonconforming technical data and charge the cost to the Contractor; or

			(ii)  Elect a price or fee adjustment instead of correction or replacement.

		(3)  In addition to the remedies under paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this clause, the Contractor shall be liable to the Government for all damages to the Government as a result of the breach of warranty.

			(i)  The additional liability under paragraph (d)(3) of this clause shall not exceed 75 percent of the target profit.

			(ii)  If the breach of the warranty is with respect to the data supplied by an equipment subcontractor, the limit of the Contractor's liability shall be-

				(A)  Ten percent of the total subcontract price in a firm-fixed-price subcontract;

				(B)  Seventy-five percent of the total subcontract fee in a cost-plus-fixed-fee or cost-plus-award-fee subcontract; or

				(C)  Seventy-five percent of the total subcontract target profit or fee in a fixed-price-incentive or cost-plus-incentive subcontract.

			(iii)  Damages due the Government under the provisions of this warranty are not an allowable cost.

			(iv)  The additional liability in paragraph (d)(3) of this clause shall not apply-

				(A)  With respect to the requirements for product drawings and associated lists, special inspection equipment (SIE) drawings and associated lists, special tooling drawings and associated lists, SIE operating instructions, SIE descriptive documentation, and SIE calibration procedures under MIL-T-31000, General Specification for Technical Data Packages, Amendment 1, or MIL-T-47500, General Specification for Technical Data Packages, Supp 1, or drawings and associated lists under level 2 or level 3 of MIL-D-1000A, Engineering and Associated Data Drawings, or DoD-D-1000B, Engineering and Associated Lists Drawings (Inactive for New Design) Amendment 4, Notice 1; or drawings and associated lists under category E or I of MIL-D-1000, Engineering and Associated Lists Drawings, provided that the data furnished by the Contractor was current, accurate at time of submission, and did not involve a significant omission of data necessary to comply with the requirements; or

				(B)  To defects the Contractor discovers and gives written notice to the Government before the Government discovers the error.

				(e)  The provisions of this clause apply anew to that portion of any corrected or replaced technical data furnished to the Government under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this clause.

(End of clause)

	Alternate II.  As prescribed in 246.710(1) and (1)(iii), use the following clause, which uses a different paragraph (d)(3) than the basic clause:

WARRANTY OF DATA-ALTERNATE II (DEVIATION 2026-O0035) (FEB 2026)

	(a)  Definition.  Technical data has the same meaning as given in the clause at 252.227-7989 Rights in Technical Data, Computer Software, and Computer Software Documentation-Other Than Commercial Products or Commercial Services.

	(b)  Warranty.  Notwithstanding inspection and acceptance by the Government of technical data furnished under this contract, and notwithstanding any provision of this contract concerning the conclusiveness of acceptance, the Contractor warrants that all technical data delivered under this contract will at the time of delivery conform with the specifications and all other requirements of this contract.  The warranty period shall extend for three years after completion of the delivery of the line item of data (as identified in DD Form 1423, Contract Data Requirements List) of which the data forms a part; or any longer period specified in the contract.

	(c)  Contractor Notification.  The Contractor agrees to notify the Contracting Officer in writing immediately of any breach of the above warranty which the Contractor discovers within the warranty period.

	(d)  Remedies.  The following remedies shall apply to all breaches of the warranty, whether the Contractor notifies the Contracting Officer in accordance with paragraph (c) of this clause or if the Government notifies the Contractor of the breach in writing within the warranty period:

		(1)  Within a reasonable time after such notification, the Contracting Officer may-

			(i)  By written notice, direct the Contractor to correct or replace at the Contractor's expense the nonconforming technical data promptly; or

			(ii)  If the Contracting Officer determines that the Government no longer has a requirement for correction or replacement of the data, or that the data can be more reasonably corrected by the Government, inform the Contractor by written notice that the Government elects a price or fee adjustment instead of correction or replacement.

		(2)  If the Contractor refuses or fails to comply with a direction under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this clause, the Contracting Officer may, within a reasonable time of the refusal or failure-

			(i)  By contract or otherwise, correct or replace the nonconforming technical data and charge the cost to the Contractor; or

			(ii)  Elect a price or fee adjustment instead of correction or replacement.

		(3)  In addition to the remedies under paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this clause, the Contractor shall be liable to the Government for all damages to the Government as a result of the breach of the warranty.

			(i)  The additional liability under paragraph (d)(3) of this clause shall not exceed ten percent of the total contract price.

			(ii)  If the breach of the warranty is with respect to the data supplied by an equipment subcontractor, the limit of the Contractor's liability shall be-

				(A)  Ten percent of the total subcontract price in a firm[-]fixed[-]price subcontract;

				(B)  Seventy-five percent of the total subcontract fee in a cost-plus-fixed-fee or cost-plus-award-fee subcontract; or

				(C)  Seventy-five percent of the total subcontract target profit or fee in a fixed-price-incentive or cost-plus-incentive subcontract.

			(iii)  The additional liability specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this clause shall not apply-

				(A)  With respect to the requirements for product drawings and associated lists, special inspection equipment (SIE) drawings and associated lists, special tooling drawings and associated lists, SIE operating instructions, SIE descriptive documentation, and SIE calibration procedures under MIL-T-31000, General Specification for Technical Data Packages, Amendment 1, or MIL-T-47500, General Specification for Technical Data Packages, Supp 1, or drawings and associated lists under level 2 or level 3 of MIL-D-1000A, Engineering and Associated Data Drawings, or DoD-D-1000B, Engineering and Associated Lists Drawings (Inactive for New Design) Amendment 4, Notice 1; or drawings and associated lists under category E or I of MIL-D-1000, Engineering and Associated Lists Drawings, provided that the data furnished by the Contractor was current, accurate at time of submission, and did not involve a significant omission of data necessary to comply with the requirements; or

				(B)  To defects the Contractor discovers and gives written notice to the Government before the Government discovers the error.

	(e)  The provisions of this clause apply anew to that portion of any corrected or replaced technical data furnished to the Government under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this clause.
(End of clause)

252.246-7002  Warranty of construction (Germany).
As prescribed in 246.710(2), use the following clause:

WARRANTY OF CONSTRUCTION (GERMANY) (JUN 1997)
 
	(a)  In addition to any other representations in this contract, the Contractor warrants, except as provided in paragraph (j) of this clause, that the work performed under this contract conforms to the contract requirements and is free of any defect of equipment, material, or design furnished or workmanship performed by the Contractor or any subcontractor or supplier at any tier.

	(b)  This warranty shall continue for the period(s) specified in Section 13, VOB, Part B, commencing from the date of final acceptance of the work under this contract.  If the Government takes possession of any part of the work before final acceptance, this warranty shall continue for the period(s) specified in Section 13, VOB, Part B, from the date the Government takes possession.

	(c)  The Contractor shall remedy, at the Contractor's expense, any failure to conform or any defect.  In addition, the Contractor shall remedy, at the Contractor's expense, any damage to Government-owned or -controlled real or personal property when that damage is the result of-

		(1)  The Contractor's failure to conform to contract requirements; or

		(2)  Any defect of equipment, material, or design furnished or workmanship performed.

	(d)  The Contractor shall restore any work damaged in fulfilling the terms and conditions of this clause.

	(e)  The Contracting Officer shall notify the Contractor, in writing, within a reasonable period of time after the discovery of any failure, defect, or damage.

	(f)  If the Contractor fails to remedy any failure, defect, or damage within a reasonable period of time after receipt of notice, the Government shall have the right to replace, repair, or otherwise remedy the failure, defect, or damage at the Contractor's expense.

	(g)  With respect to all warranties, express or implied, from subcontractors, manufacturers, or suppliers for work performed and materials furnished under this contract, the Contractor shall-

		(1)  Obtain all warranties that would be given in normal commercial practice;

		(2)  Require all warranties to be executed in writing, for the benefit of the Government, if directed by the Contracting Officer; and

		(3)  Enforce all warranties for the benefit of the Government as directed by the Contracting Officer.

	(h)  In the event the Contractor's warranty under paragraph (b) of this clause has expired, the Government may bring suit at its expense to enforce a subcontractor's, manufacturer's, or supplier's warranty.

			(i)  Unless a defect is caused by the Contractor's negligence, or the negligence of a subcontractor or supplier at any tier, the Contractor shall not be liable for the repair of any defects of material or design furnished by the Government or for the repair of any damage resulting from any defect in Government-furnished material or design.

	(j)  This warranty shall not limit the Government's right under the Inspection clause of this contract, with respect to latent defects, gross mistakes, or fraud.

(End of clause)

252.246-7003  Notification of Potential Safety Issues.
As prescribed in 246.370(a), use the following clause:

NOTIFICATION OF POTENTIAL SAFETY ISSUES (JAN 2023)

	(a)  Definitions.  As used in this clause-

	Credible information means information that, considering its source and the surrounding circumstances, supports a reasonable belief that an event has occurred or will occur.

	Critical safety item means a part, subassembly, assembly, subsystem, installation equipment, or support equipment for a system that contains a characteristic, any failure, malfunction, or absence of which could have a safety impact.

	Safety impact means the occurrence of death, permanent total disability, permanent partial disability, or injury or occupational illness requiring hospitalization; loss of a weapon system; or property damage exceeding $1,000,000.

	Subcontractor means any supplier, distributor, vendor, or firm that furnishes supplies or services to or for the Contractor or another subcontractor under this contract.

	(b)  The Contractor shall provide notification, in accordance with paragraph (c) of this clause, of-

		(1)  All nonconformances for parts identified as critical safety items acquired by the Government under this contract; and

		(2)  All nonconformances or deficiencies that may result in a safety impact for systems, or subsystems, assemblies, subassemblies, or parts integral to a system, acquired by or serviced for the Government under this contract.

	(c)  The Contractor-

		(1)  Shall notify the Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO) and the Procuring Contracting Officer (PCO) as soon as practicable, but not later than 72 hours, after discovering or acquiring credible information concerning nonconformances and deficiencies described in paragraph (b) of this clause; and

		(2)  Shall provide a written notification to the ACO and the PCO within 5 working days that includes-

			(i)  A summary of the defect or nonconformance;

			(ii)  A chronology of pertinent events;

			(iii)  The identification of potentially affected items to the extent known at the time of notification;

			(iv)  A point of contact to coordinate problem analysis and resolution; and

			(v)  Any other relevant information.

	(d)  The Contractor-

		(1)  Is responsible for the notification of potential safety issues occurring with regard to an item furnished by any subcontractor; and

		(2)  Shall facilitate direct communication between the Government and the subcontractor as necessary.

	(e)  Notification of safety issues under this clause shall be considered neither an admission of responsibility nor a release of liability for the defect or its consequences.  This clause does not affect any right of the Government or the Contractor established elsewhere in this contract.

	(f)(1)  Subcontracts.  The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (f), in subcontracts for-

			(i)  Parts identified as critical safety items;

			(ii)  Systems and subsystems, assemblies, and subassemblies integral to a system; or

			(iii)  Repair, maintenance, logistics support, or overhaul services for systems and subsystems, assemblies, subassemblies, and parts integral to a system.

		(2)  For those subcontracts, including subcontracts for commercial products or commercial services, described in paragraph (f)(1) of this clause, the Contractor shall require the subcontractor to provide the notification required by paragraph (c) of this clause to-

			(i)  The Contractor or higher-tier subcontractor; and

			(ii)  The ACO and the PCO, if the subcontractor is aware of the ACO and the PCO for the contract.

(End of clause)

252.246-7004  Safety of Facilities, Infrastructure, and Equipment for Military Operations.
As prescribed in 246.270-4, use the following clause:

SAFETY OF FACILITIES, INFRASTRUCTURE, AND EQUIPMENT FOR MILITARY OPERATIONS (OCT 2010)

	(a)  Definition.  Discipline Working Group, as used in this clause, means representatives from the DoD Components, as defined in MIL-STD-3007F, who are responsible for the unification and maintenance of the Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) documents for a particular discipline area.

	(b)  The Contractor shall ensure, consistent with the requirements of the applicable inspection clause in this contract, that the facilities, infrastructure, and equipment acquired, constructed, installed, repaired, maintained, or operated under this contract comply with Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 1-200-01 for-

		(1)  Fire protection;

		(2)  Structural integrity;

		(3)  Electrical systems;

		(4)  Plumbing;

		(5)  Water treatment;

		(6)  Waste disposal; and

		(7)  Telecommunications networks.

	(c)  The Contractor may apply a standard equivalent to or more stringent than UFC 1-200-01 upon a written determination of the acceptability of the standard by the Contracting Officer with the concurrence of the relevant Discipline Working Group.

(End of clause)

252.246-7005  Notice of Warranty Tracking of Serialized Items.

As prescribed in 246.710(3)(i), use the following provision:

NOTICE OF WARRANTY TRACKING OF SERIALIZED ITEMS (MAR 2016)

	(a)  Definitions.  Duration, enterprise, enterprise identifier, fixed expiration, item type, serialized item, starting event, unique item identifier, usage, warranty administrator, warranty guarantor, and warranty tracking are defined in the clause at 252.246-7006, Warranty Tracking of Serialized Items.

	(b)  Reporting of data for warranty tracking and administration.  (1) The Offeror shall provide the information required by the attachment entitled "Warranty Tracking Information" on each contract line item number, subline item number, or exhibit line item number for warranted items with its offer. Information required in the warranty attachment for each warranted item shall include such information as duration, fixed expiration, item type, starting event, usage, warranty administrator enterprise identifier, and warranty guarantor enterprise identifier.

		(2)  The successful offeror will be required to provide the following information no later than when the warranted items are presented for receipt and/or acceptance, in accordance with the clause at 252.246-7006-

			(i)  The unique item identifier for each warranted item required by the attachment entitled "Warranty Tracking Information;" and

			(ii)  All information required by the attachment entitled "Source of Repair Instructions" for each warranted item.

		(3)  For additional information on warranty attachments, see the "Warranty and Source of Repair" training and "Warranty and Source of Repair Tracking User Guide" accessible on the Product Data Reporting and Evaluation Program (PDREP) Web site at https://www.pdrep.csd.disa.mil/pdrep_files/other/wsr.htm.

(End of provision)

252.246-7006 Warranty Tracking of Serialized Items.
As prescribed in 246.710(3)(ii), use the following clause:

WARRANTY TRACKING OF SERIALIZED ITEMS (MAR 2016)

	(a)  Definitions.  As used in this clause-

	Duration means the warranty period.  This period may be a stated period of time, amount of usage, or the occurrence of a specified event, after formal acceptance of delivery, for the Government to assert a contractual right for the correction of defects.

	Enterprise means the entity (e.g., a manufacturer or vendor) responsible for granting the warranty and/or assigning unique item identifiers to serialized warranty items.

	Enterprise identifier means a code that is uniquely assigned to an enterprise by an issuing agency.

	First use means the initial or first-time use of a product by the Government.

	Fixed expiration means the date the warranty expires and the Contractor's obligation to provide for a remedy or corrective action ends.

	Installation means the date a unit is inserted into a higher level assembly in order to make that assembly operational.

	Issuing agency means an organization responsible for assigning a globally unique identifier to an enterprise, as indicated in the Register of Issuing Agency Codes for International Standards Organization/International Electrotechnical Commission 15459, located at http://www.aimglobal.org/?Reg_Authority15459.

	Item type means a coded representation of the description of the item being warranted, consisting of the codes C-component procured separate from end item, S-subassembly procured separate from end item or subassembly, E-embedded in component, subassembly or end item parent, and P-parent end item.

	Starting event means the event or action that initiates the warranty, such as first use or upon installation.

	Serialized item means each item produced is assigned a serial number that is unique among all the collective tangible items produced by the enterprise, or each item of a particular part, lot, or batch number is assigned a unique serial number within that part, lot, or batch number assignment within the enterprise identifier.  The enterprise is responsible for ensuring unique serialization within the enterprise identifier or within the part, lot, or batch numbers, and that serial numbers, once assigned, are never used again.

	Unique item identifier means a set of data elements marked on an item that is globally unique and unambiguous.

	Usage means the quantity and an associated unit of measure that specifies the amount of a characteristic subject to the contractor's obligation to provide for remedy or corrective action, such as a number of miles, hours, or cycles.

	Warranty administrator means the organization specified by the guarantor for managing the warranty.

	Warranty guarantor means the enterprise that provides the warranty under the terms and conditions of a contract.

	Warranty repair source means the organization specified by a warranty guarantor for receiving and managing warranty items that are returned by a customer.

	Warranty tracking means the ability to trace a warranted item from delivery through completion of the effectivity of the warranty.

	(b)  Reporting of data for warranty tracking and administration.  (1) The Contractor shall provide the information required by the attachment entitled "Warranty Tracking Information" on each contract line item number, subline item number, or exhibit line item number for warranted items no later than the time of award. Information required in the warranty attachment shall include such information as duration, fixed expiration, item type, starting event, usage, warranty administrator enterprise identifier, and warranty guarantor enterprise identifier.

		(2)  The Contractor shall provide the following information no later than when the warranted items are presented for receipt and/or acceptance-

			(i)  The unique item identifier for each warranted item required by the attachment entitled "Warranty Tracking Information;" and

			(ii)  The warranty repair source information and instructions for each warranted item required by the attachment entitled "Source of Repair Instructions."

		(3)  The Contractor shall submit the data for warranty tracking to the Contracting Officer with a copy to the requiring activity and the Contracting Officer Representative.

		(4)  For additional information on warranty attachments, see the "Warranty and Source of Repair" training and "Warranty and Source of Repair Tracking User Guide" accessible on the Product Data Reporting and Evaluation Program (PDREP) Web site at https://www.pdrep.csd.disa.mil/pdrep_files/other/wsr.htm.

	(c)  Reservation of rights.  The terms of this clause shall not be construed to limit the Government's rights or remedies under any other contract clause.

(End of clause)

252.246-7007  Contractor Counterfeit Electronic Part Detection and Avoidance System.

As prescribed in 246.870-3(a), use the following clause:

CONTRACTOR COUNTERFEIT ELECTRONIC PART DETECTION AND AVOIDANCE SYSTEM (JAN 2023)

The following paragraphs (a) through (e) of this clause do not apply unless the Contractor is subject to the Cost Accounting Standards under 41 U.S.C. chapter 15, as implemented in regulations found at 48 CFR 9903.201-1.

	(a)  Definitions.  As used in this clause-

	Authorized aftermarket manufacturer means an organization that fabricates a part under a contract with, or with the express written authority of, the original component manufacturer based on the original component manufacturer's designs, formulas, and/or specifications.

	Authorized supplier means a supplier, distributor, or an aftermarket manufacturer with a contractual arrangement with, or the express written authority of, the original manufacturer or current design activity to buy, stock, repackage, sell, or distribute the part.

	Contract manufacturer means a company that produces goods under contract for another company under the label or brand name of that company.

	Contractor-approved supplier means a supplier that does not have a contractual agreement with the original component manufacturer for a transaction, but has been identified as trustworthy by a contractor or subcontractor.

	Counterfeit electronic part means an unlawful or unauthorized reproduction, substitution, or alteration that has been knowingly mismarked, misidentified, or otherwise misrepresented to be an authentic, unmodified electronic part from the original manufacturer, or a source with the express written authority of the original manufacturer or current design activity, including an authorized aftermarket manufacturer.  Unlawful or unauthorized substitution includes used electronic parts represented as new, or the false identification of grade, serial number, lot number, date code, or performance characteristics.
	
	Electronic part means an integrated circuit, a discrete electronic component (including, but not limited to, a transistor, capacitor, resistor, or diode), or a circuit assembly (section 818(f)(2) of Pub. L. 112-81).

	Obsolete electronic part means an electronic part that is no longer available from the original manufacturer or an authorized aftermarket manufacturer.

	Original component manufacturer means an organization that designs and/or engineers a part and is entitled to any intellectual property rights to that part.

	Original equipment manufacturer means a company that manufactures products that it has designed from purchased components and sells those products under the company's brand name.

	Original manufacturer means the original component manufacturer, the original equipment manufacturer, or the contract manufacturer.

	Suspect counterfeit electronic part means an electronic part for which credible evidence (including, but not limited to, visual inspection or testing) provides reasonable doubt that the electronic part is authentic.

	(b)  Acceptable counterfeit electronic part detection and avoidance system.  The Contractor shall establish and maintain an acceptable counterfeit electronic part detection and avoidance system.  Failure to maintain an acceptable counterfeit electronic part detection and avoidance system, as defined in this clause, may result in disapproval of the purchasing system by the Contracting Officer and/or withholding of payments and affect the allowability of costs of counterfeit electronic parts or suspect counterfeit electronic parts and the cost of rework or corrective action that may be required to remedy the use or inclusion of such parts (see DFARS 231.205-71).

	(c)  System criteria.  A counterfeit electronic part detection and avoidance system shall include risk-based policies and procedures that address, at a minimum, the following areas:

		(1)  The training of personnel.

		(2)  The inspection and testing of electronic parts, including criteria for acceptance and rejection.  Tests and inspections shall be performed in accordance with accepted Government- and industry-recognized techniques.  Selection of tests and inspections shall be based on minimizing risk to the Government.  Determination of risk shall be based on the assessed probability of receiving a counterfeit electronic part; the probability that the inspection or test selected will detect a counterfeit electronic part; and the potential negative consequences of a counterfeit electronic part being installed (e.g., human safety, mission success) where such consequences are made known to the Contractor.

		(3)  Processes to abolish counterfeit parts proliferation.

		(4)  Risk-based processes that enable tracking of electronic parts from the original manufacturer to product acceptance by the Government, whether the electronic parts are supplied as discrete electronic parts or are contained in assemblies, in accordance with paragraph (c) of the clause at 252.246-7008, Sources of Electronic Parts (also see paragraph (c)(2) of this clause).

		(5)  Use of suppliers in accordance with the clause at 252.246-7008.

		(6)  Reporting and quarantining of counterfeit electronic parts and suspect counterfeit electronic parts.  Reporting is required to the Contracting Officer and to the Government-Industry Data Exchange Program (GIDEP) when the Contractor becomes aware of, or has reason to suspect that, any electronic part or end item, component, part, or assembly containing electronic parts purchased by the DoD, or purchased by a Contractor for delivery to, or on behalf of, the DoD, contains counterfeit electronic parts or suspect counterfeit electronic parts. Counterfeit electronic parts and suspect counterfeit electronic parts shall not be returned to the seller or otherwise returned to the supply chain until such time that the parts are determined to be authentic.

		(7)  Methodologies to identify suspect counterfeit parts and to rapidly determine if a suspect counterfeit part is, in fact, counterfeit.

		(8)  Design, operation, and maintenance of systems to detect and avoid counterfeit electronic parts and suspect counterfeit electronic parts.  The Contractor may elect to use current Government- or industry-recognized standards to meet this requirement.

		(9)  Flowdown of counterfeit detection and avoidance requirements, including applicable system criteria provided herein, to subcontractors at all levels in the supply chain that are responsible for buying or selling electronic parts or assemblies containing electronic parts, or for performing authentication testing.

		(10)  Process for keeping continually informed of current counterfeiting information and trends, including detection and avoidance techniques contained in appropriate industry standards, and using such information and techniques for continuously upgrading internal processes.

		(11)  Process for screening GIDEP reports and other credible sources of counterfeiting information to avoid the purchase or use of counterfeit electronic parts.

		(12)  Control of obsolete electronic parts in order to maximize the availability and use of authentic, originally designed, and qualified electronic parts throughout the product's life cycle.

	(d)  Government review and evaluation of the Contractor's policies and procedures will be accomplished as part of the evaluation of the Contractor's purchasing system in accordance with 252.244-7001, Contractor Purchasing System Administration-Basic, or Contractor Purchasing System Administration-Alternate I.

	(e)  Subcontracts.  The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, excluding the introductory text and including only paragraphs (a) through (e), in subcontracts, including subcontracts for commercial products, for electronic parts or assemblies containing electronic parts.

(End of clause)

252.246-7008  Sources of Electronic Parts.

As prescribed in 246.870-3(b), use the following clause:

SOURCES OF ELECTRONIC PARTS (JAN 2023)

	(a) Definitions.  As used in this clause-

	Authorized aftermarket manufacturer means an organization that fabricates a part under a contract with, or with the express written authority of, the original component manufacturer based on the original component manufacturer's designs, formulas, and/or specifications.

	Authorized supplier means a supplier, distributor, or an aftermarket manufacturer with a contractual arrangement with, or the express written authority of, the original manufacturer or current design activity to buy, stock, repackage, sell, or distribute the part.

	Contract manufacturer means a company that produces goods under contract for another company under the label or brand name of that company.

	Contractor-approved supplier means a supplier that does not have a contractual agreement with the original component manufacturer for a transaction, but has been identified as trustworthy by a contractor or subcontractor.

	Electronic part means an integrated circuit, a discrete electronic component (including, but not limited to, a transistor, capacitor, resistor, or diode), or a circuit assembly (section 818(f)(2) of Pub. L. 112-81).

	Original component manufacturer means an organization that designs and/or engineers a part and is entitled to any intellectual property rights to that part.

	Original equipment manufacturer means a company that manufactures products that it has designed from purchased components and sells those products under the company's brand name.

	Original manufacturer means the original component manufacturer, the original equipment manufacturer, or the contract manufacturer.

	(b)  Selecting suppliers.  In accordance with section 818(c)(3) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Pub. L. 112-81), as amended by section 817 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Pub. L. 113-291 and section 885 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Pub. L. 114-92)), the Contractor shall-

		(1)  First obtain electronic parts that are in production by the original manufacturer or an authorized aftermarket manufacturer or currently available in stock from-

			(i)  The original manufacturers of the parts;

			(ii)  Their authorized suppliers; or

			(iii)  Suppliers that obtain such parts exclusively from the original manufacturers of the parts or their authorized suppliers;

		(2)  If electronic parts are not available as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this clause, obtain electronic parts that are not in production by the original manufacturer or an authorized aftermarket manufacturer, and that are not currently available in stock from a source listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this clause, from suppliers identified by the Contractor as contractor-approved suppliers, provided that-

			(i)  For identifying and approving such contractor-approved suppliers, the Contractor uses established counterfeit prevention industry standards and processes (including inspection, testing, and authentication), such as the DoD-adopted standards at https://assist.dla.mil;

			(ii)  The Contractor assumes responsibility for the authenticity of parts provided by such contractor-approved suppliers; and

			(iii)  The Contractor's selection of such contractor-approved suppliers is subject to review, audit, and approval by the Government, generally in conjunction with a contractor purchasing system review or other surveillance of purchasing practices by the contract administration office, or if the Government obtains credible evidence that a contractor-approved supplier has provided counterfeit parts.  The Contractor may proceed with the acquisition of electronic parts from a contractor-approved supplier unless otherwise notified by DoD; or

		(3)(i)  Take the actions in paragraphs paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this clause if the Contractor-

				(A)  Obtains an electronic part from-

					(1)  A source other than any of the sources identified in paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this clause, due to nonavailability from such sources; or

					(2)  A subcontractor (other than the original manufacturer) that refuses to accept flowdown of this clause; or

				(B)  Cannot confirm that an electronic part is new or previously unused and that it has not been comingled in supplier new production or stock with used, refurbished, reclaimed, or returned parts.

			(ii)  If the contractor obtains an electronic part or cannot confirm an electronic part pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this clause-

				(A)  Promptly notify the Contracting Officer in writing.  If such notification is required for an electronic part to be used in a designated lot of assemblies to be acquired under a single contract, the Contractor may submit one notification for the lot, providing identification of the assemblies containing the parts (e.g., serial numbers);

				(B)  Be responsible for inspection, testing, and authentication, in accordance with existing applicable industry standards; and

				(C)  Make documentation of inspection, testing, and authentication of such electronic parts available to the Government upon request.

	(c)  Traceability.  If the Contractor is not the original manufacturer of, or authorized supplier for, an electronic part, the Contractor shall-

		(1)  Have risk-based processes (taking into consideration the consequences of failure of an electronic part) that enable tracking of electronic parts from the original manufacturer to product acceptance by the Government, whether the electronic part is supplied as a discrete electronic part or is contained in an assembly;

		(2)  If the Contractor cannot establish this traceability from the original manufacturer for a specific electronic part, be responsible for inspection, testing, and authentication, in accordance with existing applicable industry standards; and

		(3)(i)  Maintain documentation of traceability (paragraph (c)(1) of this clause) or the inspection, testing, and authentication required when traceability cannot be established (paragraph (c)(2) of this clause) in accordance with FAR subpart 4.7; and

			(ii)  Make such documentation available to the Government upon request.

	(d)  Government sources.  Contractors and subcontractors are still required to comply with the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this clause, as applicable, if-

		(1)  Authorized to purchase electronic parts from the Federal Supply Schedule;

		(2)  Purchasing electronic parts from suppliers accredited by the Defense Microelectronics Activity; or

		(3)  Requisitioning electronic parts from Government inventory/stock under the authority of 252.251-7000, Ordering from Government Supply Sources.

			(i)  The cost of any required inspection, testing, and authentication of such parts may be charged as a direct cost.

			(ii)  The Government is responsible for the authenticity of the requisitioned parts.  If any such part is subsequently found to be counterfeit or suspect counterfeit, the Government will-

				(A)  Promptly replace such part at no charge; and

				(B)  Consider an adjustment in the contract schedule to the extent that replacement of the counterfeit or suspect counterfeit electronic parts caused a delay in performance.

	(e)  Subcontracts.  The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (e), in subcontracts, including subcontracts for commercial products, that are for electronic parts or assemblies containing electronic parts, unless the subcontractor is the original manufacturer.

(End of clause)

Attachment A1
DARS Tracking Number: 2026-O0035
Revolutionary Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Overhaul Part 46
Defense FAR Supplement (DFARS) Part 246


Page 4 of 35


