PGI 215-CONTRACTING BY NEGOTIATION

PGI 215.1-PRESOLICITATION AND SOLICITATION  

PGI 215.103  Developing a competitive source selection approach 

PGI 215.103-270  Limitations and prohibitions.  

	(a)  Limitations.

		(1)(vi)  Obtain guidance from the requiring activity when it is unclear whether a supply is "predominately expendable in nature" or "nontechnical," or has a "short life expectancy" or "short shelf life."  In such situations, only use the lowest price technically acceptable source selection process if the requiring activity establishes that the goods to be procured are predominantly expendable in nature, are nontechnical, or have a short life expectancy or short shelf life.

			(vii)  Document the contract file with a determination from the requiring activity that the lowest priced offer reflects full life-cycle costs for the supply or service.  For services, full life-cycle costs are equal to the contract cost of the services.

PGI 215.104  Establishing competitive evaluation factors and significant subfactors.  

PGI 215.104-70  Establishing competitive evaluation factors and significant subfactors.  

	(a)(1)  Evaluation factors may include-

			(i)  The extent to which such firms are specifically identified in proposals,

			(ii)  The extent of commitment to use such firms (for example, enforceable commitments are to be weighted more heavily than non-enforceable ones),

			(iii)  The complexity and variety of the work small firms are to perform,

			(iv)  The realism of the proposal,

			(v)  Past performance of the offerors in complying with requirements of the clauses at FAR 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns, and 52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan, and

			(vi)  Participation of such firms in terms of the value of the total acquisition.

		(c)  Using authority granted in section 806 of Pub. L. 111-383 to exclude a source based on supply chain risk requires an evaluation factor for supply chain risk, as specified at DFARS 240.271-6.  Evaluating supply chain risk requires review of the supply chain, including all information technology subcontractors and suppliers that are proposed for use at any time in the performance of the contract and may involve the use of all-source intelligence information.  The requiring activity is responsible for obtaining any necessary all-source intelligence information and must inform the contracting officer and source selection authority of the results of the review for use in evaluating offers.


PGI 215.104-71  Evaluation factor for employing or subcontracting with members of the Selected Reserve.  

	(b)  Evaluation factor.

		(1)  This evaluation factor may be used as an incentive to encourage contractors to use employees or individual subcontractors who are members of the Selected Reserve.

		(2)  As with all evaluation factors and subfactors, the contracting officer should consider the impact the inclusion of this factor will have on the resulting contract and weight it accordingly.

PGI 215.105  Other considerations.  

PGI 215.105-5  Make-or-buy decision.  

	(c)(2)  RFP requirements.  Consider the following factors when deciding whether to request a make-or-buy plan-

		(i)  The prime contractor's assumption of risk;

		(ii)  The prime contractor's plant capacity;

		(iii)  The prime contractor's degree of vertical integration;

		(iv)  The prime contractor's internal resources;

		(v)  The anticipated contract type;

		(vi)  The complexity, uniqueness, or configuration maturity associated with the end item or its subsystems;

		(vii)  Critical path items;

		(viii)  The impact on contract overhead rates with respect to maintaining work in-house;

		(ix)  The industrial base that could potentially satisfy some system requirements, based on market survey;

		(x)  Proprietary data and/or trade secrets;

		(xi)  Potential product quality concerns associated with items that would be subject to subcontracting;

		(xii)  Integrated master schedule timelines and their tolerances for variation;

		(xiii)  The availability and experience of program office personnel to credibly analyze and evaluate a submission; and

		(xiv)  Socioeconomic considerations, e.g. small business or labor surplus area concerns.

PGI 215.2-EVALUATION AND AWARD  

PGI 215.200  Scope.  

See the policy tab for Principal Director, Defense Pricing and Contracting memorandum dated August 20, 2022, entitled "Department of Defense Source Selection Procedures" that provides the procedures for conducting negotiated, competitive acquisitions utilizing FAR part 15 procedures.

PGI 215.201  Source selection responsibilities.  

	(b)(2)  The source selection plan is -

			(A)  Prepared and maintained by a person designated by the source selection authority or as prescribed by agency procedures; and

			(B)  Coordinated with the contracting officer and senior advisory group, if any, within the source selection organization.

PGI 215.202-71  Only one offer.  

	(b)  Promote competition.

		(2)  For competitive solicitations in which more than one potential offeror expressed an interest in an acquisition, but only one offer was ultimately received-

			(i)  Seek feedback (e.g., issue an RFI) after award from potential offerors expected to submit an offer; and

			(ii)  Document any feedback received in the contract file.

		(3)  Agencies must use any feedback received when considering how to overcome barriers to competition for future requirements.

PGI 215.3-POSTAWARD  

PGI 215.300  Scope.  

PGI 215.304-70 Voluntary disclosure of defective certified cost or pricing data after award. 

	(a)  Contact the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) to determine the appropriate level of audit assistance required for the circumstances (e.g., nature or dollar amount of the defective pricing disclosure):  limited-scope audit (e.g., limited to the affected cost elements of the defective pricing disclosure), full-scope audit, or technical assistance.  Discussion topics must include:

		(1)  Completeness of the contractor's voluntary disclosure on the affected contract.

		(2)  Accuracy of the contractor's cost impact calculation for the affected contract.

		(3)  Potential impact on existing contracts, task or deliver orders, or other proposals the contractor has submitted to the Government.

	(b)  Voluntary disclosure of defective pricing is not a voluntary refund as defined in 242.7100 and does not waive the Government's entitlement to the recovery of any overpayment plus interest on the overpayments in accordance with FAR 15.304(a)(1).

	(c)  Voluntary disclosure of defective pricing does not waive the Government's rights to pursue defective pricing claims on the affected contract or any other Government contract.

PGI 215.305  Estimating systems.  

PGI 215.305-70  Disclosure, maintenance, and review requirements.  

	(d)  Disposition of findings.

		(2)  Initial determination.

			(ii)(A)  Within 30 days of receiving the report, provide an initial determination of material weaknesses and a copy of the report to the contractor.

				(C)  Evaluation of contractor's response.  Within 30 days of receiving the contractor's response to the initial determination, evaluate the contractor's response and make a final determination.

		(3)  Final determination.

			(ii)(A)  Monitoring contractor's corrective action.  Monitor, with the auditor, the contractor's progress in correcting material weaknesses.  If the contractor fails to make adequate progress, the contracting officer shall take whatever action is necessary to ensure that the contractor corrects the weaknesses and deficiencies, including withdrawing or withholding approval of the system; elevating the issue to the attention of higher level management; reducing or suspending progress payments (see FAR 32.503-6); recommending non-award of potential contracts, as applicable; and increasing the withholding in accordance with 252.242-7005, Contractor Business Systems.

				(B)  Correction of material weaknesses.

					(1)  The contractor is required to notify the contracting officer that it has corrected the material weaknesses.  Upon receiving notification, request the auditor review the correction to determine if the material weaknesses have been resolved.

					(2)  Make a determination if the contractor has corrected the material weaknesses.

					(3)  If the contractor has corrected the material weaknesses, send the contracting officer's notification to the auditor; payment office; appropriate action officers responsible for reporting past performance at the requiring activities; and each contracting and contract administration office having substantial business with the contractor, as applicable.


PGI 215.4-CONTRACT PRICING  

PGI 215.400  Scope of subpart.  

PGI 215.402  General.  

PGI 215.402-70  Contract pricing-General.

	(b)(1)  Contracting officers must purchase supplies and services from responsible sources at fair and reasonable prices.  The Truthful Cost and Pricing statutes (10 U.S.C. chapter 271 and 41 U.S.C. chapter 35) require offerors to submit certified cost or pricing data if a procurement exceeds the Truthful Cost and Pricing threshold, and none of the exceptions to certified cost or pricing data requirements applies.  Under the Truthful Cost and Pricing statute, the contracting officer obtains accurate, complete, and current data from offerors to establish a fair and reasonable price (see FAR 15.403-3 and 215.403-3(a)).  The Truthful Cost and Pricing statutes also allow for a price adjustment remedy if it is later found that a contractor did not provide accurate, complete, and current data.

			(2)  When certified cost or pricing data are not required, and the contracting officer does not have sufficient data to determine price reasonableness, FAR 15.402(a)(2) requires the offeror to provide whatever data the contracting officer needs in order to determine fair and reasonable prices.

			(3)  Obtaining sufficient data from the offeror is particularly critical in situations where a product or service is determined to be a commercial product or commercial service in accordance with FAR 2.101 and the contract is being awarded on a sole source basis.  This includes commercial sales data of products or services sold in similar quantities and, if such data is insufficient, cost data to support the proposed price.

			(4)  See PGI 215.404-70 and the Department of Defense Guidebook for Acquiring Commercial Items, Part B: Pricing Commercial Items, for more detailed procedures and guidance on obtaining data needed to determine fair and reasonable prices.

PGI 215.403  Obtaining cost or pricing data.  

PGI 215.403-1  Data other than certified cost or pricing data.  

	(b)(1)	If certified cost or pricing data are not required by FAR 15.403-3 or 215.403-3(a) and there is no other means for the contracting officer to determine that prices are fair and reasonable, the offeror is required to submit "data other than certified cost or pricing data" (see definition at FAR 2.101).  In accordance with FAR 15.403-1(b), the offeror must provide appropriate data on the prices at which the same or similar items have previously been sold, adequate for determining the reasonableness of the price.  The following clarifies the requirements of this section-

			(i)  Data other than certified cost or pricing data.  When certified cost or pricing data are not required, obtain whatever data is necessary in order to determine the reasonableness of the price.  The FAR defines this as "data other than certified cost or pricing data."  When TINA does not apply and there is no other means of determining that prices are fair and reasonable, obtain appropriate data on the prices at which the same or similar items have been sold previously, adequate for evaluating the reasonableness of the price.  Sales data must be comparable to the quantities, capabilities, specifications, etc., of the product or service proposed.  Sufficient steps must be taken to verify the integrity of the sales data, to include assistance from the Defense Contract Management Agency, the Defense Contract Audit Agency, and/or other agencies if required.  See PGI 215.404-70 for more detailed procedures for obtaining data from offerors to determine price reasonableness.

			(ii)  Previously been sold.  Request offerors provide data related to prior sales (or "offered for sale") in support of price reasonableness determinations.

			(iii)  Adequacy of sales data for pricing.  Determine if the prior sales data is sufficient for determining that prices are fair and reasonable.  If the sales data is not sufficient, obtain additional data, including cost data if necessary.  See PGI 215.404-70 for more detailed procedures for obtaining whatever data is needed to determine fair and reasonable prices.

	(c)  Prepare a written request that clearly describes the required data, the reason the data is required to determine fair and reasonable pricing, and the due date for submission.  Request data in the offeror's existing format but require appropriate explanations if necessary to enable analysis (see FAR 15.105-4(b)(2)).  When a request for proposal contains solicitation provision DFARS 252.215-7994, offerors are to respond to data requests within 10 days.

PGI 215.403-170  Contracting officer responsibilities.  

	(a)  Analysis of historical prices paid by the Government.  

		(i)  Consider prices paid by the Government and commercial customers.  Do not rely solely on a prior price paid by the Government without further analysis (see FAR 15.404-1).

			(A)  Verify and document that sufficient analysis was performed on the prior price to determine that the prior price was fair and reasonable.  Sometimes, due to urgent situations, supplies or services are purchased even though an adequate price or cost analysis could not be performed.  The problem is exacerbated when other contracting officers assume these prices were adequately analyzed and determined to be fair and reasonable.

			(B)  Investigate and document the following considerations:

				(1)  Verify that the quantities were similar for pricing purposes, making adjustments as necessary to ensure comparability with the current quantity requirement;

				(2)  Consider whether the historical purchases were recent enough to be relevant for the purpose of establishing price reasonableness of the current acquisition, and escalate or deflate the historical prices as appropriate to facilitate comparison to the current proposed price; and

				(3)  Validate that the terms and conditions associated with the historical purchases were comparable to the current terms and conditions, or adjust the historical prices in a manner that accounts for the materially differing terms and conditions.

		(ii)  Not verifying that a previous analysis was performed, or the consistencies in quantities, has been a recurring issue on sole source commercial products and commercial services reported by oversight organizations.  Sole source commercial products and commercial services require extra attention to verify that previous prices paid on Government contracts were sufficiently analyzed and determined to be fair and reasonable.

		(iii)  At a minimum, review price history and discuss the basis of previous prices paid with the contracting organization that previously bought the item.  Document the discussions in the contract file.

	(b)  Refusals to submit data.  

			(i)  When additional data is required to determine price reasonableness and the offeror does not respond to data requests (see PGI 215.403-1(c)), use the following sequence of steps-

				(A)  If the offeror does not submit the requested data on time, document any missed deadlines in the contract file.  If the offeror does not respond or refuses to provide the requested data, elevate the issue within the contracting activity.

				(B)  The contracting activity, with support from the contracting officer, may engage the offeror's leadership for resolution.

				(C)  If the offeror continues to refuse to provide the data, the contracting activity will elevate the issue to the head of the contracting activity for a determination in accordance with DFARS 215.403-170(b).

				(D)  Document the contract file to describe-

					(1)  The data requested and the need for that data;

					(2)  Why there is currently no other alternative but to procure the item from this particular source; and

					(3)  A written plan for avoiding this situation in the future (e.g., develop a second source by...; bring the procurement in house to the Government by...).

				(E)  Consistent with the requirements at FAR 15.104 and 42.1102 and the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS), unless exempted by the HCA, provide input into the past performance system, noting the offeror's refusal to provide requested information.

		(ii)  Delegation.  The HCA may delegate, no lower than one level above the contracting officer, the authority to determine whether it is in the best interest of the Government to issue an award in accordance with DFARS 215.403-170(b).  This individual may be the individual responsible for approval of the prenegotiation objective (see DFARS 215.408-1), unless that individual is the contacting officer.

		(iii)  Reporting requirements.  

			(A)  Document, collect, and provide a report in the standard digital format (see paragraph (b)(iii)(B) of this subsection) to the HCA of all denials of contracting officer requests to offerors or contractors for data other than certified cost or pricing data that are not resolved through the elevation process at (b)(i) of this section and, therefore, require a determination by the HCA in accordance with DFARS 215.403-170(b).  Place the HCA determination in the contract file.

			(B)  The HCA shall consolidate and validate this information for all impacted contracts and modifications regardless of dollar value and submit the information in the standard digital format available at https://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/dars/pgi/docs/Data_Denials_Template_9-26-23.xlsx.  A completed report or note of no findings is required to fulfill the reporting requirement to the Principal Director, Defense Pricing, Contracting, and Acquisition Policy (DPCAP).  Reports are due to DPCAP 30 days after the end of each quarterly reporting period.  HCAs must transmit reports electronically to DPCAP at osd.pentagon.ousd-a-s.mbx.dpc-pcf@mail.mil for incorporation into the "Annual Report to Congress on Denials of Contracting Officer Uncertified Cost or Pricing Data Requests" submitted by the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 3705(b)(2)(B).  

			(C)  HCAs must provide only the data denial section of the report that is applicable to the contractor or offeror reported within than 30 calendar days after receiving sections of the report in (B) from the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment.  For subcontractors and interorganizational transfers, the HCA must provide a copy directly to the prime contractor for submittal to the applicable subcontractor or transferring organization. 

PGI 215.403-2  Prohibitions on obtaining certified cost or pricing data.  

PGI 215.403-270  Prohibition on obtaining certified cost or pricing data  

	(a)(1)  Exceptions to certified cost or pricing data requirements.  Even if an exception to certified cost or pricing data applies, the contracting officer is still required to determine price reasonableness.  

	(b)  Waivers.  

		(1)  Exceptional case TINA waiver.

			(i)  In determining that an exceptional case TINA waiver is appropriate, the HCA must ensure that the supplies or services could not be obtained without the waiver and that the determination is clearly documented.  The intent is not to relieve entities that normally perform Government contracts subject to TINA from an obligation to certify that cost or pricing data are accurate, complete, and current.  Instead, use waivers judiciously, in situations where the Government could not otherwise obtain a needed item without a waiver.  A prime example would be when a particular company offers an item that is essential to DoD's mission but is not available from other sources, and the company refuses to submit certified cost or pricing data.  In such cases, a waiver may be appropriate.  However, the procuring agency should, in conjunction with the waiver, develop a strategy for procuring the item in the future that will not require such a waiver (e.g., develop a second source, develop an alternative product that satisfies the department's needs, or have DoD produce the item).

				(ii)  Senior procurement executive coordination.  An exceptional case TINA waiver that exceeds $100 million shall be coordinated with the senior procurement executive prior to granting the waiver. 

				(iii)  Waiver for part of a proposal.  The requirement for submission of certified cost or pricing data may be waived for part of an offeror's proposed price when it is possible to clearly identify that part of the offeror's cost proposal to which the waiver applies as separate and distinct from the balance of the proposal.  In granting a partial waiver, in addition to complying with the requirements in DFARS 215.403-270(b)(3), the HCA must address why it is in the Government's best interests to grant a partial waiver, given that the offeror has no objection to certifying to the balance of its cost proposal.

				(iv)  Waivers for unpriced supplies or services.  Because there is no price, unpriced supplies or services cannot be subject to cost or pricing data certification requirements.  The Government cannot agree in advance to waive certification requirements for unpriced supplies or services, and may only consider a waiver at such time as an offeror proposes a price that would otherwise be subject to certification requirements.

		(2)  Annual Reporting Requirement.  By November 30th of each year, departments and agencies must provide a report to the Office of the Principal Director, Defense Pricing, Contracting, and Acquisition Policy (Price, Cost and Finance), of all waivers granted during the previous fiscal year under FAR 15.403-2(b)(4) and DFARS 215.403-270(b)(1) for any contract, subcontract, or modification expected to have a value of $25 million or more.  The annual report of waiver of TINA requirements shall include the following-

				Title:  Waiver of TINA Requirements

				(A)  Contract number, including modification number, if applicable, and program name.

				(B)  Contractor name.

				(C)  Contracting activity.

				(D)  Total dollar amount waived.

				(E)  Brief description of why the item(s) could not be obtained without a waiver.  

				(F)  Brief description of the specific steps taken to ensure price reasonableness.

				(G)  Brief description of the demonstrated benefits of granting the waiver.

			(3)  Waivers applicable to the Canadian Commercial Corporation.   All contracts with the Canadian Commercial Corporation (CCC) are placed in accordance with the practices, policies and procedures of the Government of Canada covering procurement for defense purposes (see PGI 225.870).  Contracting Officers may rely on the confirmation and endorsement of the offer from the Canadian Commercial Corporation at 225.870-3(a) as an endorsement of the cost/price as no more than would be charged to the Canadian government.

				(i)  When 252.215-7990 or 252.215-7991 are included in a solicitation with the Canadian Commercial Corporation, the data required by paragraph (b)(i) and (ii), in concert with the confirmation and endorsement of the offer, is intended to meet the requirements of FAR 15.408-2 for documentation of fair and reasonable pricing.

				(ii)  Support the Use of 252.215-7990 or 252.215-7991 in sole source acquisitions not meeting the threshold at 215.110-70(b)(1)(i)(A) or (b)(2)(i)(A) or competitive acquisitions at any dollar value with a determination and finding justifying the anticipated need for data other than certified cost or pricing data to determine a fair and reasonable price.

				(iii)  When the need for additional data to establish a fair and reasonable price, specific data is anticipated, request the data in the solicitation using 252.215-7990.

				(iv)  Examples of clause use:

ScenarioRequirementSole source to CCC, fixed price, with estimated value of $600 million.Include provision and clause in accordance with 215.110-70(b)(1)(i)(A)(2) and (b)(2)(i)(A)(2), respectively, because estimated value exceeds $500 million.Sole source to CCC, cost reimbursement, with estimated value of $800,000.Include provision and clause in accordance with215.110-70(b)(1)(i)(A)(1) and (b)(2)(i)(A)(1), respectively, because estimated value exceeds $700,000.Sole source to CCC ,cost-reimbursement, with estimated value of $500,000.Do not include provision and clause, unless D&F is approved in accordance with215.110-70(b)(1)(i)(B) and (b)(2)(i)(B), respectively, because estimated value does not exceed $700,000.Sole source to CCC ,fixed price, with estimated value of $800,000Do not include provision and clause, unless D&F is approved in accordance with215.110-70(b)(1)(i)(B) and (b)(2)(i)(B), respectively, because estimated value does not exceed $500 million.Modifications to contracts that include the clause 252.215-7991.If 252.215-7991 is included in the contract, then data are required for modifications valued above the simplified acquisition threshold, or a higher threshold specified in the solicitation by the contracting officer, in accordance with 252.215-7991(b).
PGI 215.403-4  Certificate of current cost or pricing data.  

	(a)  Prior to the start of negotiations, contracting officers should notify offerors and contractors that-

		(1)  A Certificate of Current Cost or Pricing Data, as prescribed by FAR 15.403-4, must be submitted as soon as practicable after agreement on price (preferably within 5 days after price agreement), but before contract award or execution of a modification (except for unpriced actions such as letter contracts).

		(2)  A Certificate of Current Cost or Pricing Data that deviates from the language specified in FAR 15.403-4 or has been amended to include certification of data submitted after the date of price agreement, will not be accepted.

	(b)  If any data is submitted after the date of price agreement, contracting officers must-

		(1) Notify offerors in writing that such data will not be reviewed until after contract award and will be dispositioned in accordance with FAR 15.304 and FAR clause 52.215-10 or 52.215-11, as applicable, or

		(2) Consider the previous price agreement null and void, and prior to award-

			(i)  Reopen negotiations to assess the impact of the data submitted after the date of price agreement ("sweep data"),

			(ii)  Reestablish price agreement based on cost or pricing data that is accurate, complete, and current as of the date of the revised agreement on price, and 

			(iii)  Obtain a new Certificate of Current Cost or Pricing Data for any new or revised data submitted after the previous certification.

		(3)  If a contractor persistently submits untimely "sweep" data or fails to timely submit cost or pricing data or the certification that the data are accurate, complete, and current as of the data of price agreement, the contracting officer should refer the matter to the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) via the Administrative Contracting Officer, Divisional Administrative Contracting Officer, or Corporate Administrative Contracting Officer, as appropriate, for consideration in DCAA's review of the adequacy of the contractor's estimating system.

PGI 215.404  Cost and/or price analysis.  

PGI 215.404-170  Price Analysis.  

		(a)  See the Department of Defense Guidebook for Acquiring Commercial Items, Part B: Pricing Commercial Items, for detailed guidance about techniques and approaches to pricing commercial products and commercial services.

		(e)  Contracting officers must obtain and document sufficient data to confirm that previous prices paid by the Government were based on a thorough price and/or cost analysis.  For example, it would not be sufficient to use price(s) from a database paid by another contracting officer without understanding the type of analysis that was performed to determine the reasonableness of the price(s), and without verifying that the quantities were similar for pricing purposes.  This does not necessarily need to be another analysis, but there should be coordination with the other office that acknowledges an analysis was performed previously.

		(g)  DoD's cadre of experts within the Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA) will provide assistance with commercial product or commercial service determinations and price reasonableness determinations.  Information about how to obtain advisory assistance from DCMA's  Commercial Item Group  is available via email at dcma.boston-ma.easterrn-rc.mbx.Commercial@mail.mil or at http://www.dcma.mil/commercial-item-group/.

PGI 215.404-2  Cost Analysis.  

	(a)(1)  When the contracting officer cannot obtain sufficient data to perform a price analysis in accordance with FAR 15.404-1, a cost analysis is required.

		(2)  When a solicitation is not subject to TINA and a cost analysis is required, clearly communicate to the offeror or contractor the cost data that will be needed to determine if the proposed price is fair and reasonable.  See PGI 215.403-1(c).

		(3)  Consider the need for field pricing support from the Defense Contract Management Agency, the Defense Contract Audit Agency, and/or other agencies.  See PGI 215.404-4 and 215.406.

PGI 215.404-4  Technical cost or price analysis.  
Technical review can assist in evaluating the changes that are required to get from the "similar to" item to the item being solicited.  This may establish sufficient price/cost analysis techniques to determine the price for the item being solicited is fair and reasonable.  Information about how to obtain advisory assistance from the DoD cadre of experts in the DCMA CIG is available via email at dcma.boston-ma.eastern-rc.mbx.Commercial@mail.mil or at http://www.dcma.mil/commercial-item-group/.

PGI 215.404-7  Review and justification of pass-through contracts.  

	(a)  This requirement applies to acquisitions that include the clause at FAR 52.215-23, Limitations on Pass-Through Charges, as prescribed at FAR 15.110(v)(2)(i).  When considering alternative approaches or making the determination that the contracting approach selected is in the best interest of the Government as required by FAR 15.404-7, consider the following elements-

		(1)  The requirement, proposed prime contractor, and overall proposed contract value.

		(2)  The information provided in response to the provision at FAR 52.215-22, Limitations on Pass-Through Charges-Identification of Subcontract Effort, regarding the subcontracts, and the estimated value of the proposed subcontracts.

		(3)  The availability of alternative existing contracts that would allow direct access to the subcontractor, such as existing indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity contracts, Federal Supply Schedule contracts, or Governmentwide agency contracts.  Perform market research as appropriate.

		(4)  Potential cost savings of directly contracting with the subcontractor.

		(5)  Feasibility of competition for the subcontracted effort or justification for single source procurement.

		(6)  Potential impacts to the contracting and program schedule for implementing a direct contract with the subcontractors or conducting a competition for the subcontracted effort.

		(7)  Changes in performance risk as result of eliminating prime contractor oversight and substituting direct government oversight.  Risks may include loss of prime contractor knowledge of integration and program requirements, availability of government contracting and contract administration personnel, reduced system or program accountability of the prime contractor who is no longer responsible for the entire effort, impact on warranties. 

		(8)  Subcontractor past performance and experience directly managing programs of this size.

	(b)  DoD components must include reviews of compliance in routine procurement management reviews or other inspections.

PGI 215.404-8  Subcontract pricing considerations.  

	(a)  Consider the need for field pricing analysis and evaluation of lower-tier subcontractor proposals, and assistance to prime contractors when they are being denied access to lower-tier subcontractor records.

		(1)  When obtaining field pricing assistance on a prime contractor's proposal, the contracting officer should request audit or field pricing assistance to analyze and evaluate the proposal of a subcontractor at any tier (notwithstanding availability of data or analyses performed by the prime contractor) if the contracting officer believes that such assistance is necessary to ensure the reasonableness of the total proposed price.  Such assistance may be appropriate when, for example?

			(i)  There is a business relationship between the contractor and the subcontractor not conducive to independence and objectivity;

			(ii)  The contractor is a sole source supplier and the subcontract costs represent a substantial part of the contract cost;

			(iii)  The contractor has been denied access to the subcontractor's records;

			(iv)  The contracting officer determines that, because of factors such as the size of the proposed subcontract price, audit or field pricing assistance for a subcontract at any tier is critical to a fully detailed analysis of the prime contractor's proposal;

			(v)  The contractor or higher-tier subcontractor has been cited for having significant estimating system deficiencies in the area of subcontract pricing, especially the failure to perform adequate cost analyses of proposed subcontract costs or to perform subcontract analyses prior to negotiation of the prime contract with the Government; or

			(vi)  A lower-tier subcontractor has been cited as having significant estimating system deficiencies.

		(2)  It may be appropriate for the contracting officer or the ACO to provide assistance to a contractor or subcontractor at any tier, when the contractor or higher-tier subcontractor has been denied access to a subcontractor's records in carrying out the responsibilities at FAR 15.404-8 to conduct price or cost analysis to determine the reasonableness of proposed subcontract prices.  Under these circumstances, the contracting officer or the ACO should consider whether providing audit or field pricing assistance will serve a valid Government interest.

		(3)  When DoD performs the subcontract analysis, DoD must furnish to the prime contractor or higher-tier subcontractor, with the consent of the subcontractor reviewed, a summary of the analysis performed in determining any unacceptable costs included in the subcontract proposal.  If the subcontractor withholds consent, DoD shall furnish a range of unacceptable costs for each element in such a way as to prevent disclosure of subcontractor proprietary data.

		(4)  Price redeterminable or fixed-price incentive contracts may include subcontracts placed on the same basis.  When the contracting officer wants to reprice the prime contract even though the contractor has not yet established final prices for the subcontracts, the contracting officer may negotiate a firm contract price-

			(i)  If certified cost or pricing data on the subcontracts show the amounts to be reasonable and realistic; or

			(ii)  If certified cost or pricing data on the subcontracts are too indefinite to determine whether the amounts are reasonable and realistic, but-

				(A)  Circumstances require prompt negotiation; and

				(B)  A statement substantially as follows is included in the repricing modification of the prime contract:

As soon as the Contractor establishes firm prices for each subcontract listed below, the Contractor shall submit (in the format and with the level of detail specified by the Contracting Officer) to the Contracting Officer the subcontractor's cost incurred in performing the subcontract and the final subcontract price.  The Contractor and the Contracting Officer shall negotiate an equitable adjustment in the total amount paid or to be paid under this contract to reflect the final subcontract price.
		(5)  If the selection of the subcontractor is based on a trade-off among cost or price and other non-cost factors rather than lowest price, the analysis supporting subcontractor selection should include a discussion of the factors considered in the selection (also see FAR 15.103 and 15.104 and DFARS 215.104-70).  If the contractor's analysis is not adequate, return it for correction of deficiencies.

		(6)  Do not permit fees negotiated by contractors for cost-plus-fixed-fee subcontracts to exceed the statutory fee limitations in FAR 15.404-9(c)(4).

PGI 215.404-970  DD Form 1547, Record of Weighted Guidelines Method Application.  

	(a)  The DD Form 1547-

		(1)  Provides a vehicle for performing the analysis necessary to develop a profit objective, and

		(2)  Provides a format for summarizing profit amounts subsequently negotiated as part of the contract price.

	(b)(1)  Use and prepare a DD Form 1547 whenever a structured approach to profit analysis is required by DFARS 215.404-970 (see PGI 215.404-971, 215.404-972, and 215.404-973 for guidance on using the structured approaches).  Administrative instructions for completing the form are in PGI 253.215-70.

		(2)  Ensure that the DD Form 1547 is accurately completed.  The contracting officer is responsible for the correction of any errors detected by the management system auditing process.
PGI 215.404-971  Weighted guidelines method.

	(a)  General.

		(1)  The weighted guidelines method focuses on four profit factors-

			(i)  Performance risk,

			(ii)  Contract type risk,

			(iii)  Facilities capital employed, and

			(iv)  Cost efficiency.

		(2)  Assign values to each profit factor; the value multiplied by the base results in the profit objective for that factor.  Except for the cost efficiency special factor, each profit factor has a normal value and a designated range of values.  The normal value is representative of average conditions on the prospective contract when compared to all goods and services acquired by DoD.  The designated range provides values based on above normal or below normal conditions.  In the price negotiation documentation, address conditions that justify assignment of other than the normal value.  The cost efficiency special factor has no normal value.  Exercise sound business judgment in selecting a value when this special factor is used (see 215.404-971(e)).

	(b)  Performance risk.

		(1)  Description.  This profit factor addresses the contractor's degree of risk in fulfilling the contract requirements.  The factor consists of two parts:

			(i)  Technical--the technical uncertainties of performance.

			(ii)  Management/cost control--the degree of management effort necessary-

				(A)  To ensure that contract requirements are met; and

				(B)  To reduce and control costs.

		(2)  Determination.  The following extract from the DD Form 1547 is annotated to describe the process.

AssignedAssignedBaseProfitItemContractor Risk FactorsWeightingValue(Item 20)Objective21.Technical(1)(2)N/AN/A22.Management/
Cost Control(1)(2)N/AN/A23.Performance Risk
(Composite)N/A(3)(4)(5)
			(i)  Assign a weight (percentage) to each element according to its input to the total performance risk.  The total of the two weights equals 100 percent.

			(ii)  Select a value for each element from the list in paragraph (b)(3) of this section using the evaluation criteria in paragraphs (b)(4) and (b)(5) of this section.

			(iii)  Compute the composite as shown in the following example:

Assigned WeightingAssigned ValueWeighted ValueTechnical60%5.0%3.0%Management/
Cost Control40%4.0%1.6%Composite Value100%4.6%
			(iv)  Insert the amount from Block 20 of the DD Form 1547.  Block 20 is total contract costs, excluding facilities capital cost of money.

			(v)  Multiply (b)(2)(iii) by (b)(2)(iv).

		(3)  Values:  Normal and designated ranges.

Normal ValueDesignated RangeStandard5%3% to 7%Technology Incentive9%7% to 11%
			(i)  Standard.  The standard designated range should apply to most contracts.

			(ii)  Technology incentive.  For the technical factor only, contracting officers may use the technology incentive range for acquisitions that include development, production, or application of innovative new technologies.  The technology incentive range does not apply to efforts restricted to studies, analyses, or demonstrations that have a technical report as their primary deliverable.

		(4)  Evaluation criteria for technical.

			(i)  Review the contract requirements and focus on the critical performance elements in the statement of work or specifications.  Factors to consider include-

				(A)  Technology being applied or developed by the contractor,

				(B)  Technical complexity,

				(C)  Program maturity,

				(D)  Performance specifications and tolerances,

				(E)  Delivery schedule, and

				(F)  Extent of a warranty or guarantee.

			(ii)  Above normal conditions.

				(A)  The contracting officer may assign a higher than normal value in those cases where there is a substantial technical risk.  Indicators are-

					(1)  Items are being manufactured using specifications with stringent tolerance limits,

					(2)  The efforts require highly skilled personnel or require the use of state-of-the-art machinery,

					(3)  The services and analytical efforts are extremely important to the Government and must be performed to exacting standards,

					(4)  The contractor's independent development and investment has reduced the Government's risk or cost,

					(5)  The contractor has accepted an accelerated delivery schedule to meet DoD requirements, or

					(6)  The contractor has assumed additional risk through warranty provisions.

				(B)  Extremely complex, vital efforts to overcome difficult technical obstacles that require personnel with exceptional abilities, experience, and professional credentials may justify a value significantly above normal.

				(C)  The following may justify a maximum value-

					(1)  Development or initial production of a new item, particularly if performance or quality specifications are tight, or

					(2)  A high degree of development or production concurrency.

			(iii)  Below normal conditions.

				(A)  The contracting officer may assign a lower than normal value in those cases where the technical risk is low.  Indicators are-

					(1)  Requirements are relatively simple,

					(2)  Technology is not complex,

					(3)  Efforts do not require highly skilled personnel,

					(4)  Efforts are routine,

					(5)  Programs are mature, or

					(6)  Acquisition is a follow-on effort or a repetitive type acquisition.

				(B)  The contracting officer may assign a value significantly below normal for-

					(1)  Routine services,

					(2)  Production of simple items,

					(3)  Rote entry or routine integration of Government-furnished information, or

					(4)  Simple operations with Government-furnished property.

			(iv)  Technology incentive range.

				(A)  The contracting officer may assign values within the technology incentive range when contract performance includes the introduction of new, significant technological innovation.  Use the technology incentive range only for the most innovative contract efforts.  Innovation may be in the form of-

					(1)  Development or application of new technology that fundamentally changes the characteristics of an existing product or system and that results in increased technical performance, improved reliability, or reduced costs, or

					(2)  New products or systems that contain significant technological advances over the products or systems they are replacing.

				(B)  When selecting a value within the technology incentive range, the contracting officer should consider the relative value of the proposed innovation to the acquisition as a whole.  When the innovation represents a minor benefit, the contracting officer should consider using values less than the norm.  For innovative efforts that will have a major positive impact on the product or program, the contracting officer may use values above the norm.

		(5)  Evaluation criteria for management/cost control.

			(i)  The contracting officer should evaluate-

				(A)  The contractor's management and internal control systems using contracting office data, information and reviews made by field contract administration offices or other DoD field offices,

				(B)  The management involvement expected on the prospective contract action,

				(C)  The degree of cost mix as an indication of the types of resources applied and value added by the contractor,

				(D)  The contractor's support of Federal socioeconomic programs,

				(E)  The expected reliability of the contractor's cost estimates (including the contractor's cost estimating system),

				(F)  The adequacy of the contractor's management approach to controlling cost and schedule, and

				(G)  Any other factors that affect the contractor's ability to meet the cost targets (e.g., foreign currency exchange rates and inflation rates).

			(ii)  Above normal conditions.

				(A)  The contracting officer may assign a higher than normal value when there is a high degree of management effort.  Indicators of this are-

					(1)  The contractor's value added is both considerable and reasonably difficult,

					(2)  The effort involves a high degree of integration or coordination,

					(3)  The contractor has a good record of past performance,

					(4)  The contractor has a substantial record of active participation in Federal socioeconomic programs,

					(5)  The contractor provides fully documented and reliable cost estimates,

					(6)  The contractor makes appropriate make-or-buy decisions, or

					(7)  The contractor has a proven record of cost tracking and control.

				(B)  The contracting officer may justify a maximum value when the effort-

					(1)  Requires large scale integration of the most complex nature,

					(2)  Involves major international activities with significant management coordination (e.g., offsets with foreign vendors), or

					(3)  Has critically important milestones.

				(C)  If the contractor demonstrates efficient management and cost control through the submittal of a timely, qualifying proposal (as defined in 217.7401) in furtherance of definitization of an undefinitized contract action, and the proposal demonstrates effective cost control from the time of award to the present, the contracting officer may add 1 percentage point to the value determined for management/cost control up to the maximum of 7 percent.

			(iii)  Below normal conditions.

				(A)  The contracting officer may assign a lower than normal value when the management effort is minimal.  Indicators of this are-

					(1)  The program is mature and many end item deliveries have been made;

					(2)  The contractor adds minimal value to an item;


					(3)  The efforts are routine and require minimal supervision;

					(4)  The contractor provides poor quality, untimely proposals;

					(5)  The contractor fails to provide an adequate analysis of subcontractor costs; 

					(6)  The contractor does not cooperate in the evaluation and negotiation of the proposal;

					(7)  The contractor's cost estimating system is marginal;

					(8)  The contractor has made minimal effort to initiate cost reduction programs;

					(9)  The contractor's cost proposal is inadequate;

					(10)  The contractor has a record of cost overruns or another indication of unreliable cost estimates and lack of cost control; or

					(11)  The contractor has a poor record of past performance.

				(B)  The following may justify a value significantly below normal-

					(1)  Reviews performed by the field contract administration offices disclose unsatisfactory management and internal control systems (e.g., quality assurance, property control, safety, security); or

					(2)  The effort requires an unusually low degree of management involvement.

	(c)  Contract type risk and working capital adjustment.

		(1)  Description.  The contract type risk factor focuses on the degree of cost risk accepted by the contractor under varying contract types.  The working capital adjustment is an adjustment added to the profit objective for contract type risk.  It only applies to fixed-price contracts that provide for progress payments.  Though it uses a formula approach, it is not intended to be an exact calculation of the cost of working capital.  Its purpose is to give general recognition to the contractor's cost of working capital under varying contract circumstances, financing policies, and the economic environment.

		(2)  Determination.  The following extract from the DD 1547 is annotated to explain the process.

ContractorAssignedBaseProfitItemRisk FactorsValueObjective24aContract Type Risk (based on incurred costs at the time of qualifying proposal submission)(1)(2)(i)(3)24bContract Type Risk (based on Government estimated cost to complete)(1)(2)(ii)(3)24cTotals(3)(3)
ContractorCostsLengthInterestProfitItemRisk FactorsFinancedFactorRateObjective25Working Capital (4)(5)(6)(7)(8)
			(i)  Select a value from the list of contract types in paragraph (c)(3) of this section using the evaluation criteria in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.  See paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section.

			(ii)(A)  Insert the amount of costs incurred as of the date the contractor submits a qualifying proposal, such as under an undefinitized contract action (excluding facilities capital cost of money) into the Block 24a column titled Base.

				(B) Insert the amount of Government estimated cost to complete (excluding facilities capital cost of money) into the Block 24b column titled Base.

			(iii)  Multiply (1) by (c)(2)(ii)(A) and (c)(2)(ii)(B), respectively for blocks 24a and 24b.  Add Blocks 24a and 24b and insert the totals in Block 24c.

			(iv)  Only complete this block when the prospective contract is a fixed-price contract containing provisions for progress payments.

			(v)  Insert the amount computed per paragraph (c)(5) of this section.

			(vi)  Insert the appropriate figure from paragraph (c)(6) of this section.

			(vii)  Use the interest rate established by the Secretary of the Treasury (see https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/prompt-payment/rates.html).  Do not use any other interest rate.

			(viii)  Multiply (c)(2)(v) by (c)(2)(vi) by (c)(2)(vii).  This is the working capital adjustment.  It shall not exceed 4 percent of the contract costs in Block 20.

		(3)  Values:  Normal and designated ranges.

NormalDesignatedContract TypeNotesValue
(percent)Range
(percent)Firm-fixed-price, no financing(i)54 to 6Firm-fixed-price, with performance-based payments(vi)42.5 to 5.5Firm-fixed-price, with progress payments(ii)32 to 4Fixed-price incentive, no financing(i)32 to 4Fixed-price incentive, with performance-based payments(vi)20.5 to 3.5Fixed-price with redetermination provision(iii)Fixed-price incentive, with progress payments(ii)10 to 2Cost-plus-incentive-fee(iv)10 to 2Cost-plus-fixed-fee(iv)0.50 to 1Time-and-materials (including overhaul contracts priced on time-and-materials basis)(v)0.50 to 1Labor-hour
(v)0.50 to 1Firm-fixed-price, level-of-effort(v)0.50 to 1
			(i)  "No financing" means either that the contract does not provide progress payments or performance-based payments, or that the contract provides them only on a limited basis, such as financing of first articles.  Do not compute a working capital adjustment.

			(ii)  When the contract contains provisions for progress payments, compute a working capital adjustment (Block 25).

			(iii)  For the purposes of assigning profit values, treat a fixed-price contract with redetermination provisions as if it were a fixed-price incentive contract with below normal conditions.

			(iv)  Cost-plus contracts shall not receive the working capital adjustment.

			(v)  These types of contracts are considered cost-plus-fixed-fee contracts for the purposes of assigning profit values.  They shall not receive the working capital adjustment in Block 25.  However, they may receive higher than normal values within the designated range to the extent that portions of cost are fixed.

			(vi)  When the contract contains provisions for performance-based payments, do not compute a working capital adjustment.

		(4)  Evaluation criteria.

			(i)  General.  The contracting officer should consider elements that affect contract type risk such as-

				(A)  Length of contract,

				(B)  Adequacy of cost data for projections,

				(C)  Economic environment,

				(D)  Nature and extent of subcontracted activity,

				(E)  Protection provided to the contractor under contract provisions (e.g., economic price adjustment clauses),

				(F)  The ceilings and share lines contained in incentive provisions,

				(G)  Risks associated with contracts for foreign military sales (FMS) that are not funded by U.S. appropriations, and

				(H)  When the contract contains provisions for performance-based payments-

					(1)  The frequency of payments,

					(2)  The total amount of payments compared to the maximum allowable amount specified at FAR 32.1004(b)(2), and

					(3)  The risk of the payment schedule to the contractor.

			(ii)  Mandatory.

				(A)  Assess the extent to which costs have been incurred prior to definitization of the contract action (also see 217.7404-6 and 243.370-6).  When considering the reduced cost risks associated with allowable incurred costs on an undefinitized contract action, it is appropriate to apply separate contract risk factors for allowable incurred costs and estimated costs to complete when completing the contract risk sections of DD Form 1547, Record of Weighted Guidelines.  When costs have been incurred prior to definitization, generally regard the contract type risk to be in the low end of the designated range.  If a substantial portion of the costs has been incurred prior to definitization, the contracting officer may assign a value as low as zero percent, regardless of contract type.  However, if a contractor submits a qualifying proposal to definitize an undefinitized contract action and the contracting officer for such action definitizes the contract after the end of the 180-day period beginning on the date on which the contractor submitted the qualifying proposal as defined in 217.7401, the profit allowed on the contract shall accurately reflect the cost risk of the contractor as such risk existed on the date the contractor submitted the qualifying proposal.

				(B)  Document in the price negotiation memorandum the reason for assigning a specific contract type risk value, to include the extent to which any reduced cost risk during the undefinitized period of performance was considered, in determining the negotiation objective.

			(iii)  Above normal conditions.  The contracting officer may assign a higher than normal value when there is substantial contract type risk.  Indicators of this are-

				(A)  Efforts where there is minimal cost history,

				(B)  Long-term contracts without provisions protecting the contractor, particularly when there is considerable economic uncertainty.

				(C)  Incentive provisions (e.g., cost and performance incentives) that place a high degree of risk on the contractor,

				(D)  FMS sales (other than those under DoD cooperative logistics support arrangements or those made from U.S. Government inventories or stocks) where the contractor can demonstrate that there are substantial risks above those normally present in DoD contracts for similar items, or

				(E)  An aggressive performance-based payment schedule that increases risk.

			(iv)  Below normal conditions.  The contracting officer may assign a lower than normal value when the contract type risk is low.  Indicators of this are-

				(A)  Very mature product line with extensive cost history,

				(B)  Relatively short-term contracts,

				(C)  Contractual provisions that substantially reduce the contractor's risk,

				(D)  Incentive provisions that place a low degree of risk on the contractor,

				(E)  Performance-based payments totaling the maximum allowable amount(s) specified at FAR 32.1004(b)(2), or

				(F)  A performance-based payment schedule that is routine with minimal risk.

		(5)  Costs financed.

			(i)  Costs financed equal total costs multiplied by the portion (percent) of costs financed by the contractor.

			(ii)  Total costs equal Block 20 (i.e., all allowable costs excluding facilities capital cost of money), reduced as appropriate when-

				(A)  The contractor has little cash investment (e.g., subcontractor progress payments liquidated late in period of performance),

				(B)  Some costs are covered by special financing provisions, such as advance payments, or

				(C)  The contract is multiyear and there are special funding arrangements.

			(iii)  The portion that the contractor finances is generally the portion not covered by progress payments, i.e., 100 percent minus the customary progress payment rate (see FAR 32.501-1).  For example, if a contractor receives progress payments at 80 percent, the portion that the contractor finances is 20 percent.  On contracts that provide progress payments to small businesses, use the customary progress payment rate for large businesses.

		(6)  Contract length factor.

			(i)  This is the period of time that the contractor has a working capital investment in the contract.  It-

				(A)  Is based on the time necessary for the contractor to complete the substantive portion of the work,

				(B)  Is not necessarily the period of time between contract award and final delivery (or final payment), as periods of minimal effort should be excluded,

				(C)  Should not include periods of performance contained in option provisions, and

				(D)  Should not, for multiyear contracts, include periods of performance beyond that required to complete the initial program year's requirements.

			(ii)  The contracting officer-

				(A)  Should use the following table to select the contract length factor,

				(B)  Should develop a weighted average contract length when the contract has multiple deliveries, and

				(C)  May use sampling techniques provided they produce a representative result.

TABLEPeriod to Perform SubstantiveContract LengthPortion (in months)Factor21 or less.4022 to 27.6528 to 33.9034 to 391.1540 to 451.4046 to 511.6552 to 571.9058 to 632.1564 to 692.4070 to 752.6576 or more2.90
			(iii)  Example:  A prospective contract has a performance period of 40 months with end items being delivered in the 34th, 36th, 38th, and 40th months of the contract.  The average period is 37 months and the contract length factor is 1.15.

	(d)  Facilities capital employed.

		(1)  Description.  This factor focuses on encouraging and rewarding capital investment in facilities that benefit DoD.  It recognizes both the facilities capital that the contractor will employ in contract performance and the contractor's commitment to improving productivity.

		(2)  Contract facilities capital estimates.  Estimate the facilities capital cost of money and capital employed using-

			(i)  An analysis of the appropriate Forms CASB-CMF and cost of money factors (48 CFR 9904.414 and FAR 31.205-10), and

			(ii)  DD Form 1861, Contract Facilities Capital Cost of Money.

		(3)  Use of DD Form 1861.  

			(i)  Purpose.  The DD Form 1861 provides a means of linking the Form CASB-CMF and DD Form 1547, Record of Weighted Guidelines Application.  It-

				(A)  Enables the contracting officer to differentiate profit objectives for various types of assets (land, buildings, equipment).  The procedure is similar to applying overhead rates to appropriate overhead allocation bases to determine contract overhead costs.

				(B)  Is designed to record and compute the contract facilities capital cost of money and capital employed which is carried forward to DD Form 1547.

			(ii)  Completion instructions.  Complete a DD Form 1861 only after evaluating the contractor's cost proposal, establishing cost of money factors, and establishing a prenegotiation objective on cost.  Complete the form as follows-

				(A)  List overhead pools and direct-charging service centers (if used) in the same structure as they appear on the contractor's cost proposal and Form CASB-CMF.  The structure and allocation base units-of-measure must be compatible on all three displays.

				(B)  Extract appropriate contract overhead allocation base data, by year, from the evaluated cost breakdown or prenegotiation cost objective and list against each overhead pool and direct-charging service center.

				(C)  Multiply each allocation base by its corresponding cost of money factor to get the facilities capital cost of money estimated to be incurred each year.  The sum of these products represents the estimated contract facilities capital cost of money for the year's effort.

				(D)  Total contract facilities cost of money is the sum of the yearly amounts.

				(E)  Since the facilities capital cost of money factors reflect the applicable cost of money rate in Column 1 of Form CASB-CMF, divide the contract cost of money by that same rate to determine the contract facilities capital employed.

			(iii)  Field pricing support.

				(A)  May ask the ACO to complete the forms as part of field pricing support.  

				(B)  When the Weighted Guidelines Method is used, completion of the DD Form 1861 requires data not included on the Form CASB-CMF, i.e., distribution percentages of land, building, and equipment for the business unit performing the contract.  Choose the most practical method for obtaining this data, for example-

					(1)  Contract administration offices could obtain the data through the process used to establish factors for facilities capital cost of money or could establish advance agreements on distribution percentages for inclusion in field pricing reports,

					(2)  The corporate ACO could obtain distribution percentages, or 

					(3)  The contracting officer could request the data through a solicitation provision.

		(4)  Preaward facilities capital applications.  To establish cost and price objectives, apply the facilities capital cost of money and capital employed as follows-

			(i)  Cost of Money.

				(A)  Cost Objective.  Use the imputed facilities capital cost of money, with normal, booked costs, to establish a cost objective or the target cost when structuring an incentive type contract.  Do not adjust target costs established at the outset even though actual cost of money rates become available during the period of contract performance.

				(B)  Profit Objective.  When measuring the contractor's effort for the purpose of establishing a prenegotiation profit objective, restrict the cost base to normal, booked costs.  Do not include cost of money as part of the cost base.

			(ii)  Facilities Capital Employed.  Assess and weight the profit objective for risk associated with facilities capital employed in accordance with the profit guidelines at 215.404-971(d).

		(5)  Determination.  The following extract from the DD Form 1547 has been annotated to explain the process.


ItemContractor Facilities Capital EmployedAssigned ValueAmount EmployedProfit Objective26.LandN/A(2)N/A27.BuildingsN/A(2)N/A28.Equipment(1)(2)(3)
			(i)  Select a value from the list in paragraph (d)(6) of this section using the evaluation criteria in paragraph (d)(7) of this section.

			(ii)  Use the allocated facilities capital attributable to land, buildings, and equipment, as derived in DD Form 1861, Contract Facilities Capital Cost of Money.

				(A)  In addition to the net book value of facilities capital employed, consider facilities capital that is part of a formal investment plan if the contractor submits reasonable evidence that-

					(1)  Achievable benefits to DoD will result from the investment, and

					(2)  The benefits of the investment are included in the forward pricing structure.

				(B)  If the value of intracompany transfers has been included in Block 20 at cost (i.e., excluding general and administrative (G&A) expenses and profit), add to the contractor's allocated facilities capital, the allocated facilities capital attributable to the buildings and equipment of those corporate divisions supplying the intracompany transfers.  Do not make this addition if the value of intracompany transfers has been included in Block 20 at price (i.e., including G&A expenses and profit).

			(iii)  Multiply (d)(5)(i) by (d)(5)(ii).

		(6)  Values:  Normal and designated ranges.

Asset TypeNormal ValueDesignated RangeLand0%N/ABuildings0%N/AEquipment17.5%10% to 25%
		(7)  Evaluation criteria.

			(i)  In evaluating facilities capital employed, the contracting officer-

				(A)  Should relate the usefulness of the facilities capital to the goods or services being acquired under the prospective contract,

				(B)  Should analyze the productivity improvements and other anticipated industrial base enhancing benefits resulting from the facilities capital investment, including-

					(1)  The economic value of the facilities capital, such as physical age, undepreciated value, idleness, and expected contribution to future defense needs, and

					(2)  The contractor's level of investment in defense related facilities as compared with the portion of the contractor's total business that is derived from DoD; and

				(C)  Should consider any contractual provisions that reduce the contractor's risk of investment recovery, such as termination protection clauses and capital investment indemnification.

			(ii)  Above normal conditions.

				(A)  The contracting officer may assign a higher than normal value if the facilities capital investment has direct, identifiable, and exceptional benefits.  Indicators are-

					(1)  New investments in state-of-the-art technology that reduce acquisition cost or yield other tangible benefits such as improved product quality or accelerated deliveries, or

					(2)  Investments in new equipment for research and development applications.

				(B)  The contracting officer may assign a value significantly above normal when there are direct and measurable benefits in efficiency and significantly reduced acquisition costs on the effort being priced.  Maximum values apply only to those cases where the benefits of the facilities capital investment are substantially above normal.

			(iii)  Below normal conditions.

				(A)  The contracting officer may assign a lower than normal value if the facilities capital investment has little benefit to DoD.  Indicators are-

					(1)  Allocations of capital apply predominantly to commercial product lines,

					(2)  Investments are for such things as furniture and fixtures, home or group level administrative offices, corporate aircraft and hangars, gymnasiums, or

					(3)  Facilities are old or extensively idle.

				(B)  The contracting officer may assign a value significantly below normal when a significant portion of defense manufacturing is done in an environment characterized by outdated, inefficient, and labor-intensive capital equipment.

	(e) Cost efficiency factor.

		(1)  This special factor provides an incentive for contractors to reduce costs.  To the extent that the contractor can demonstrate cost reduction efforts that benefit the pending contract, the contracting officer may increase the prenegotiation profit objective by an amount not to exceed 4 percent of total objective cost (Block 20 of the DD Form 1547) to recognize these efforts (Block 29).

		(2)  To determine if using this factor is appropriate, consider criteria, such as the following, to evaluate the benefit the contractor's cost reduction efforts will have on the pending contract:

			(i)  The contractor's participation in Single Process Initiative improvements;

			(ii)  Actual cost reductions achieved on prior contracts;

			(iii)  Reduction or elimination of excess or idle facilities;

			(iv)  The contractor's cost reduction initiatives (e.g., competition advocacy programs, technical insertion programs, obsolete parts control programs, spare parts pricing reform, value engineering, outsourcing of functions such as information technology).  Metrics developed by the contractor such as fully loaded labor hours (i.e., cost per labor hour, including all direct and indirect costs) or other productivity measures may provide the basis for assessing the effectiveness of the contractor's cost reduction initiatives over time;

			(v)  The contractor's adoption of process improvements to reduce costs;

			(vi)  Subcontractor cost reduction efforts;

			(vii)  The contractor's effective incorporation of commercial products or commercial services and commercial processes; or

			(viii)  The contractor's investment in new facilities when such investments contribute to better asset utilization or improved productivity.

		(3)  When selecting the percentage to use for this special factor, the contracting officer has maximum flexibility in determining the best way to evaluate the benefit the contractor's cost reduction efforts will have on the pending contract.  However, the contracting officer shall consider the impact that quantity differences, learning, changes in scope, and economic factors such as inflation and deflation will have on cost reduction.

PGI 215.404-972  Modified weighted guidelines method for nonprofit organizations other than FFRDCs.

	(a)  Definition.  As used in this subpart, a nonprofit organization is a business entity-

		(1)  That operates exclusively for charitable, scientific, or educational purposes,

		(2)  Whose earnings do not benefit any private shareholder or individual,

		(3)  Whose activities do not involve influencing legislation or political campaigning for any candidate for public office, and

		(4)  That is exempted from Federal income taxation under section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code.

	(b)  For nonprofit organizations that are entities that have been identified by the Secretary of Defense or a Secretary of a Department as receiving sustaining support on a cost-plus-fixed-fee basis from a particular DoD department or agency, compute a fee objective for covered actions using the weighted guidelines method in 215.404-971, with the following modifications-

		(1)  Modifications to performance risk (Blocks 21-23 of the DD Form 1547).

			(i)  If the contracting officer assigns a value from the standard designated range (see 215.404-971(b)(3)), reduce the fee objective by an amount equal to 1 percent of the costs in Block 20 of the DD Form 1547.  Show the net (reduced) amount on the DD Form 1547.

			(ii)  Do not assign a value from the technology incentive designated range.

		(2)  Modifications to contract type risk (Block 24 of the DD Form 1547).  Use a designated range of -1 percent to 0 percent instead of the values in 215.404-971(c).  There is no normal value.

	(c)  For all other nonprofit organizations except FFRDCs, compute a fee objective for covered actions using the weighted guidelines method in 215.404-971, modified as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

PGI 215.404-973  Alternate structured approaches.

	(a)  The contracting officer may use an alternate structured approach under 215.404-970(b).

	(b)  The contracting officer may design the structure of the alternate, but it must include-

		(1)  Consideration of the three basic components of profit--performance risk, contract type risk (including working capital), and facilities capital employed.  However, the contracting officer is not required to complete Blocks 21 through 30 of the DD Form 1547.

		(2)  Offset for facilities capital cost of money.

			(i)  Reduce the overall prenegotiation profit objective by the amount of facilities capital cost of money under Cost Accounting Standard (CAS) 414, Cost of Money as an Element of the Cost of Facilities Capital (48 CFR 9904.414).  Cost of money under CAS 417, Cost of Money as an Element of the Cost of Capital Assets Under Construction (48 CFR 9904.417), should not be used to reduce the overall prenegotiation profit objective.  The profit amount in the negotiation summary of the DD Form 1547 must be net of the offset.

			(ii)  This adjustment is needed for the following reason:  The values of the profit factors used in the weighted guidelines method were adjusted to recognize the shift in facilities capital cost of money from an element of profit to an element of contract cost (see FAR 31.205-10) and reductions were made directly to the profit factors for performance risk.  In order to ensure that this policy is applied to all DoD contracts that allow facilities capital cost of money, similar adjustments shall be made to contracts that use alternate structured approaches.

PGI 215.404-974  Fee requirements for cost-plus-award-fee contracts.
In developing a fee objective for cost-plus-award-fee contracts, the contracting officer must-

	(a)  Follow the guidance in FAR 16.402-4 and 216.402-4,

	(b)  Not use the weighted guidelines method or alternate structured approach,

	(c)  Apply the offset policy in 215.404-973(b)(2) for facilities capital cost of money, i.e., reduce the base fee by the amount of facilities capital cost of money, and

	(d)  Not complete a DD Form 1547.

PGI 215.404-975  Fee requirements for FFRDCs.

For nonprofit organizations that are FFRDCs-

	(a)  Consider whether any fee is appropriate.  Considerations shall include the FFRDC's-

		(1)  Proportion of retained earnings (as established under generally accepted accounting methods) that relates to DoD contracted effort,

		(2)  Facilities capital acquisition plans,

		(3)  Working capital funding as assessed on operating cycle cash needs, and

		(4)  Provision for funding unreimbursed costs deemed ordinary and necessary to the FFRDC.

	(b)  When a fee is considered appropriate, establish the fee objective in accordance with FFRDC fee policies in the DoD Instruction 5000.77, DoD Federally Funded Research and Development Center Program.

	(c)  Do not use the weighted guidelines method or an alternate structured approach.

PGI 215.404-70  Cost and/or price analysis.  

	(a)(1)  General.

			(i)  The objective of proposal analysis is to ensure that the final agreed-to price is fair and reasonable.

			(ii)  In some cases, supplies or services that are not subject to TINA may require a cost analysis (see PGI 215.404-2).  This will occur when a price analysis is not sufficient for determining prices to be fair and reasonable.  In such cases, the contracting officer should consider the need for a Defense Contract Audit Agency audit of the cost data.

			(iii)  Particular attention should be paid to sole source commercial products or commercial services.  While the order of preference at FAR 15.403-1(a) must be followed, if the contracting officer cannot determine price reasonableness without obtaining data other than cost or pricing data from the offeror, at a minimum, the contracting officer must obtain appropriate data on the prices at which the same or similar items have been sold previously (often previous sales data was the basis of the commercial product or commercial service determination and must be requested during price analysis of the data provided by the offeror).  If previous sales data is not sufficient to determine price reasonableness, the contracting officer must obtain "data other than certified cost or pricing data" and should perform a cost analysis.

			(iv)  Analysis of termination proposals, including termination of any contract scope, should not rely solely on earned value management budgets or estimates for estimating the costs of all work deleted, or the cost of deleted work already performed (reference FAR 15.408-2, Table 15-1-Instructions for Submitting Cost/Price Proposals When Certified Cost or Pricing Data are Required, columns (2) and (3) of section III.B., Change Orders, Modifications, and Claims).

PGI 215.405-2 Make-or-buy programs.  

	(a)  Evaluation, negotiation, and Agreement.  When a make-or-buy plan is required, listed below are factors that may be considered when evaluating a submission-

		(1)  Prime contractor past performance, especially with respect to subcontract management;

		(2)  Prime contractor make-or-buy history;

		(3)  Adequacy of contractor's existing make-or-buy processes, including cost and technical risk considerations;

		(4)  Component availability through existing sources, e.g. available inventory, or other Government contracts;

		(5)  Prime contractor plant capacity;

		(6)  The adequacy of the prime contractor's technical, financial and personnel capabilities; and


		(7)  Prime contractor justification that is provided with respect to items it does not normally make.

PGI 215.405-470  Should-cost review.  

	(b)  Program should-cost review.  DoD contracting activities should consider performing a program should-cost review before award of a definitive contract for a major system as defined by 234.7001.  

	(c)  Overhead should-cost review.

		(1)  Contact the Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA) (http://www.dcma.mil/) for questions on overhead should-cost analysis.

		(2)(i)  DCMA or the military department responsible for performing contract administration functions (e.g., Navy SUPSHIP) should consider, based on risk assessment, performing an overhead should-cost review of a contractor business unit (as defined in FAR 2.101) when all of the following conditions exist:

				(A)  Projected annual sales to DoD exceed $1 billion;

				(B)  Projected DoD versus total business exceeds 30 percent;

				(C)  Level of sole-source DoD contracts is high;

				(D)  Significant volume of proposal activity is anticipated;

				(E)  Production or development of a major weapon system or program is anticipated; and

				(F)  Contractor cost control/reduction initiatives appear inadequate.

			(ii)  The head of the contracting activity may request an overhead should-cost review for a business unit that does not meet the criteria in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this subsection.

			(iii)  Overhead should-cost reviews are labor intensive.  These reviews generally involve participation by the contracting, contract administration, and contract audit elements.  The extent of availability of military department, contract administration, and contract audit resources to support DCMA-led teams should be considered when determining whether a review will be conducted.  Overhead should-cost reviews generally should not be conducted at a contractor business segment more frequently than every 3 years.

PGI 215.406  Data to support proposal analysis.  

	(a)  Field pricing assistance.  See PGI 215.406(b) regarding when to request audit assistance.

		(1)  The contracting officer should consider requesting field pricing assistance for-

			(i)  Fixed-price proposals exceeding the certified cost or pricing data threshold,

			(ii)  Cost-type proposals exceeding the certified cost or pricing data threshold 
from offerors with material weaknesses, or

			(iii)  Cost-type proposals exceeding $10 million from offerors without material weaknesses.

		(2)  The contracting officer should not request field pricing support for proposed contracts or modifications in an amount less than that specified in paragraph (a)(i) of this subsection.  An exception may be made when a reasonable pricing result cannot be established because of-

			(i)  A lack of knowledge of the particular offeror, or

			(ii)  Sensitive conditions (e.g., a change in, or unusual problems with, an offeror's internal systems). 

	(b)  Audit assistance for prime contracts or subcontracts.

		(1)  The contracting officer should consider requesting audit assistance from DCAA for-

			(i)  Fixed-price proposals exceeding $10 million,

			(ii)  Cost-type proposals exceeding $100 million.

		(2)  The contracting officer should not request DCAA audit assistance for proposed contracts or modifications in an amount less than that specified in paragraph (c)(i) of this subsection unless there are exceptional circumstances explained in the request for audit.  (See PGI 215.406(a) for requesting field pricing assistance without a DCAA audit.)

		(3)  If, in the opinion of the contracting officer or auditor, the review of a prime contractor's proposal requires further review of subcontractors' cost estimates at the subcontractors' plants (after due consideration of reviews performed by the prime contractor), the contracting officer should inform the administrative contracting officer (ACO) having cognizance of the prime contractor before the review is initiated.

		(4)  Notify the appropriate contract administration activities when extensive, special, or expedited field pricing assistance will be needed to review and evaluate subcontractors' proposals under a major weapon system acquisition.  If audit reports are received on contracting actions that are subsequently cancelled, notify the cognizant auditor in writing.

		(5)  Requests for audit assistance for subcontracts should use the same criteria as established in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this subsection.

PGI 215.408  Documentation.

PGI 215.408-1  Prenegotiation objectives.  

	(a)  The contracting officer should consider the following in establishing prenegotiation objectives?

		(1)  Data resulting from application of work measurement systems in developing prenegotiation objectives; and

		(2)  Field pricing assistance personnel participation in planned prenegotiation and negotiation activities.

	(b)  Prenegotiation objectives, including objectives related to disposition of findings and recommendations contained in preaward and postaward contract audit and other advisory reports, must be documented and reviewed in accordance with departmental procedures.

		(1) Significant Disagreements.  (i) Contracting officers and contract auditors have complementary roles in the contracting process and are expected to collaborate to determine fair and reasonable contract values.  When a significant disagreement arises on questioned costs, the contracting officer and the auditor will discuss the basis of the disagreement.  Document that discussion and their disagreement in a written communication to the auditor.  Document the disagreement in the prenegotiation objective (or pre-business clearance).  The contracting officer may then proceed with negotiations when the prenegotiation objectives are approved.  

			(ii)  A significant disagreement is defined as the contracting officer planning to sustain less than 75-percent of the total recommended questioned costs in a Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) audit report of a contractor proposal for an initial contract or a contract modification with a value equal to or greater than $10 million.  It does not apply to costs that DCAA has categorized as unsupported or unresolved in its audit report.

		(2)  Adjudication Procedures.  DCAA has 3 days to elevate the issues within the contracting officer's activity after receipt of the contracting officer's written communication confirming the disagreement.  Furthermore, DCAA may appeal the significant issues up the chain of command as established in each component's "Resolving Contract Audit Recommendations" policy.  If issues remain, the Director, DCAA may escalate from the Defense component's head of contracting activity or senior procurement executive, to the Principal Director, DPCAP.  If the DCAA Director believes that the Principal Director, DPCAP has not adequately addressed the matter, the disagreement may finally be elevated to the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, and the Comptroller.

		(3) Notwithstanding the above, the Director, DCAA, may always raise audit issues to the Principal Director, DPCAP.

	(c)  Cost estimates for program baselines and contract negotiations for major defense acquisition programs.

		(1)  For the purpose of contract negotiations and obligation of funds under this paragraph, the Government will prepare cost analyses and targets based on the Government's reasonable expectation of successful contractor performance in accordance with the contractor's proposal and previous experience.

		(2)  Cost estimates developed for baseline descriptions and other program purposes by the Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation pursuant to its functions, do not meet the criteria described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section and, thus, must not be used for purposes of developing the Government's contract negotiation position or for the obligation of funds.  However, the Government may consider the data used to develop such estimates when developing the cost analyses and targets described in paragraph (c)(1) of this subsection.



PGI 215.408-2  Documenting the negotiation.

	(a)(1)  Include the principal factors related to the disposition of findings and recommendations contained in preaward and postaward contract audit and other advisory reports.  Use "CUI" markings as appropriate, in accordance with www.dodcui.mil.

		(2)  The documentation for fee or profit negotiated must include-

			(i)  Significant deviations from the prenegotiation profit objective;

			(ii)  The DD Form 1547, Record of Weighted Guidelines Application (see PGI 215.404-970), if used, with supporting rationale;

			(iii)  Rationale for not using the weighted guidelines method when its use would otherwise be required by DFARS 215.404-970; and

		(3)  Ensure the approved prenegotiation and postnegotiation noncompetitive business clearance documents (e.g., price negotiation memoranda) are uploaded into the Contract Business Analysis Repository (CBAR) at https://piee.eb.mil for the purpose of sharing negotiation experience with other contracting officers preparing to negotiate.  This includes both noncompetitive actions using the procedures at FAR part 12, Acquisition of Commercial Products and Commercial Services, as well as noncompetitive actions using the procedures at FAR part 15, Contracting by Negotiation, that are valued in excess of $25 million and awarded on or after June 24, 2013 (and for all definitized or awarded actions over $100 million, which occurred on or after October 1, 2012).

			(i)  Business clearance documents uploaded to CBAR must be marked "CUI" (see www.dodcui.mil).

			(ii)  The business clearance documents uploaded to CBAR must be signed by the contracting officer and include all other signatures required by local policy/procedure.

			(iii)  Upload the documentation to CBAR no later than 30 days after award of the contract action associated with the negotiation and include both the prenegotiation objectives required by FAR 15.408-1 and PGI 215.408-1, and the record of negotiations (i.e. the Price Negotiation Memoranda required by FAR 15.408-2 and PGI 215.408-2).  Complete the "description of acquisition" field with keywords and searchable terms to identify the products and services acquired.  Also complete the "comments" field of the CBAR record to summarize unique features and aspects of the negotiation in order to prompt other contracting teams to inquire further to learn from their peers' prior experience.

			(iv)  If an initial indefinite-delivery indefinite-quantity (IDIQ) task or delivery order contract contemplates issuance of task or delivery orders that will invoke negotiated rates or values from the basic contract, then the business clearance record for the basic IDIQ contract shall be uploaded if the estimated value of the contract (e.g. ceiling price) exceeds the prescribed dollar threshold.  To the extent individual task or delivery orders entail a negotiation (i.e. did not simply incorporate prices established at the basic contract level), a business clearance record for the individual task or delivery orders that exceed the prescribed dollar thresholds shall be uploaded to CBAR.

			(v)  Training for the CBAR database may be found at https://pieetraining.eb.mil/wbt/xhtml/wbt/eda/cbar/overview.xhtml. 

PGI 215.470  Estimated data prices.

	(b)(i)  The form and the provision included in the solicitation request the offeror to state what portion of the total price is estimated to be attributable to the production or development of the listed data for the Government (not to the sale of rights in the data).  However, offerors' estimated prices may not reflect all such costs; and different offerors may reflect these costs in a different manner, for the following reasons-

			(A)  Differences in business practices in competitive situations;

			(B)  Differences in accounting systems among offerors;

			(C)  Use of factors or rates on some portions of the data;

			(D)  Application of common effort to two or more data items; and

			(E)  Differences in data preparation methods among offerors.

		(ii)  Data price estimates should not be used for contract pricing purposes without further analysis.

PGI 253.215 - Contracting by negotiation.

PGI 253.215-70 - DD Form 1547, Record of Weighted Guidelines Application 

	(a)  Use the DD Form 1547 as prescribed in DFARS 215.404-970 and PGI 215.404-970.

	(b)  General instructions.

		(1)  Report amounts as they relate to the price of the contract action without regard to funding status (e.g., amounts obligated).

		(2)  Express all dollar values to the nearest whole value (e.g., $200,008.55 = $200,009).

		(3)  Do not express percentages beyond the nearest thousandth (e.g., interest rate--8.257%).

		(4)  Reserved. 

		(5)  Report an option amount for additional quantities as a separate contract action when exercised.

		(6)  Even though fixed-price type contract actions are negotiated on the basis of total price, prepare the negotiation summary portion of the DD Form 1547 showing the contracting officer's best estimates of cost and profit.

		(7)  For indefinite-delivery type contracts, prepare a consolidated DD Form 1547 for annual requirements expected to exceed the certified cost or pricing data threshold.

		(8)  Prepare a consolidated DD Form 1547, if possible, when multiple profit rates apply to a single negotiation.

	(c)  Specific instructions for completion of DD Form 1547.

		(1)  BLOCK 1--REPORT NO.  Enter the four-digit local control number followed by a dash and the last two digits of the fiscal year (e.g., 0004-06 for 4th action in fiscal year 2006).  Each field contracting office participating in profit reporting shall establish a control system for consecutively numbering completed DD Forms 1547.  Always start with 0001 at the beginning of each fiscal year and always use four digits.  This number will identify the specific DD Form 1547 in DoD's management information system and will be used for follow-up actions.

		(2)  BLOCK 2--BASIC PROCUREMENT INSTRUMENT IDENTIFICATION NO.  Enter the identifying contract number, or Procurement Instrument Identifier (PIID), assigned per PGI 204.201.

		(3)  BLOCK 3--SPIIN.  Enter the supplementary PIIDs for supplemental agreements or other modifications, assigned per PGI 204.201.

		(4)  BLOCK 4--DATE OF ACTION.

			(i)  Year.  Enter the last two digits of the year the action was negotiated (e.g., 06 for 2006).

			(ii)  Month.  Enter the two-digit number for the month the action was negotiated (e.g., 09 for September).

		(5)  BLOCK 5--CONTRACTING OFFICE CODE.  Enter the code assigned the contracting office per DoD Procurement Coding Manual, Volume III.

		(6)  BLOCK 6--NAME OF CONTRACTOR.  Enter the contractor's name (including division name).

		(7)  BLOCK 7--UNIQUE ENTITY IDENTIFIER.  Enter the contractor UEI.

		(8)  BLOCK 8--FEDERAL SUPPLY CODE.  

		(9)  BLOCK 9--DOD CLAIMANT PROGRAM.  

		(10)  BLOCK 10--CONTRACT TYPE CODE.  Enter the appropriate code-

DescriptionCodeFPR (all types)
FPI (all types)
FFP
FP(E)
CPFF
CPIF (all types)A
L
J
K
U
V
		(11)  BLOCK 11--TYPE EFFORT.  Enter the appropriate code-

DescriptionCodeManufacturing
Research and 
  Development
Services1
2

3
		(12)  BLOCK 12--USE CODE.  Enter the appropriate code for use of the weighted guidelines method-

DescriptionCodeStandard weighted guidelines method (PGI 215.404-971(b)(3)(i)2Alternate structured approach (PGI 215.404-973)4Modified weighted guidelines approach (PGI 215.404-972)5Technology incentive (PGI 215.404-971(b)(3)(ii))6
		(13)  BLOCKS 13 through 20--COST CATEGORY OBJECTIVE.  Enter the prenegotiation objectives.  Include contractor independent research and development/bid and proposal in the general and administrative expenses in Block 19.

		(14)  BLOCKS 21 through 29--WEIGHTED GUIDELINES PROFIT FACTORS.  Enter the amounts determined in accordance with PGI 215.404-971 or 215.404-972.  This section is not required to be completed when using an alternate structured approach (PGI 215.404-973).

		(15)  BLOCK 30--TOTAL PROFIT OBJECTIVE.  Enter the total of Blocks 23, 24, 25, 27, 28, and 29.  This section is not required to be completed when using an alternate structured approach (PGI 215.404-973).

		(16)  BLOCKS 31 through 35--NEGOTIATION SUMMARY.  Complete as indicated on the form.  For fixed-price type contracts negotiated on a total price basis, enter the contracting officer's best estimates of cost and profit.  When using an alternate structured approach, see PGI 215.404-973(b)(2) for offsets.

		(17)  BLOCKS 36 through 39--CONTRACTING OFFICER APPROVAL.  The contracting officer shall sign the form.  Include a complete (with area code) commercial telephone number to facilitate any follow-up actions.

		(18)  BLOCKS 96 through 99--OPTIONAL USE.  Complete in accordance with department/agency procedures, if any.


Attachment A2
DARS Tracking Number: 2026-O0048
Revolutionary Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Overhaul Part 15
Defense FAR Supplement (DFARS) Part 215


		Page 16 of 20	

