PART 232-CONTRACT FINANCING

232.001  Definitions.
"Incremental funding" means the partial funding of a contract or an exercised option, with additional funds anticipated to be provided at a later time.

232.006  Reduction or suspension of contract payments upon finding of fraud.

232.006-5  Reporting.
Follow the procedures at PGI 232.006-5 for suspected fraud related to advance, partial, or progress payments reporting.

232.007  Contract financing payments.

	(a)  DoD policy is to make contract financing payments as quickly as possible.  Generally, the contracting officer must insert the standard due dates of 7 days for progress payments, and 14 days for performance-based payments and interim payments on cost-type contracts, in the appropriate paragraphs of the respective payment clauses.  For interim payments on cost-reimbursement contracts for services, see 232.906(a)(i).

	(b)  The contracting officer should coordinate contract financing payment terms with offices that will be involved in the payment process to ensure that specified terms can be met.  Where justified, the contracting officer may insert a due date greater than, but not less than, the standard.  In determining payment terms, consider-

		(i)  Geographical separation;

		(ii)  Workload;

		(iii)  Contractor ability to submit a proper request; and

		(iv)  Other factors that could affect timing of payment.

232.009  Providing accelerated payments to small business contractors and to prime contractors that subcontract with a small business concern.

232.009-1  General.
10 U.S.C. 3801(b) requires DoD to provide accelerated payments to small business contractors and subcontractors, to the fullest extent permitted by law, with a goal of 15 days.

232.070  Responsibilities.

	(a)  The Principal Director, Defense Pricing, Contracting, and Acquisition Policy (DPCAP), Office of the Under Secretary of Defense (Acquisition and Sustainment) (OUSD(A&S)DPCAP) is responsible for ensuring uniform administration of DoD contract financing, including DoD contract financing policies and important related procedures.  Agency discretion under FAR part 32 is at the DoD level and is not delegated to the departments and agencies.  Proposals by the departments and agencies, to exercise agency discretion, must be submitted to OUSD(A&S)DPCAP.

	(b)  Departments and agencies are responsible for their day-to-day contract financing operations.  Refer specific cases involving financing policy or important procedural issues to OUSD(A&S)DPCAP for consideration through the department/agency Contract Finance Committee members (also see subpart 201.3 for deviation request and approval procedures).

	(c)  See PGI 232.070(c) for information on department/agency contract financing offices.

232.071  Reserved.

232.072  Financial responsibility of contractors.
Use the policies and procedures in this section in determining the financial capability of current or prospective contractors.

232.072-1  Required financial reviews.
Perform a financial review when there is insufficient information to make a positive determination of financial responsibility.  In addition, the contracting officer must consider performing a financial review?

	(a)  Prior to award of a contract, when the contractor?

		(1)  Is on a list requiring preaward clearance or other special clearance before award;

		(2)  Is listed on the Consolidated List of Contractors Indebted to the Government (Hold-Up List), or is otherwise known to be indebted to the Government;

		(3)  May receive Government assets such as contract financing payments or Government property;

		(4)  Is experiencing performance difficulties on other work; or

		(5)  Is a new company or a new supplier of the item.

	(b)  At periodic intervals after award of a contract, when?

		(1)  Any of the conditions in paragraphs (a)(2) through (a)(5) of this subsection are applicable; or

		(2)  There is any other reason to question the contractor's ability to finance performance and completion of the contract.

232.072-2  Appropriate information.

	(a)  Obtain the type and depth of financial and other information that is required to establish a contractor's financial capability or disclose a contractor's financial condition.  The contracting officer should not request information that is not necessary for protection of the Government's interests.  The unwillingness or inability of a contractor to present reasonably requested information in a timely manner, especially information that a prudent businessperson is expected to have and to use in the professional management of a business, may be a material fact in the determination of the contractor's responsibility and prospects for contract completion.

	(b)  Obtain the following information to the extent required to protect the Government's interest.  In addition, if the contracting officer concludes that information not listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(10) of this subsection is required to comply with 232.072-1, that information should be requested.  The information must be for the person(s) who are legally liable for contract performance.  If the contractor is not a corporation, the contracting officer must obtain the required information for each individual/joint venturer/partner:

		(1)  Balance sheet and income statement?

			(i)  For the current fiscal year (interim);

			(ii)  For the most recent fiscal year and, preferably, for the 2 preceding fiscal years.  These should be certified by an independent public accountant or by an appropriate officer of the firm; and

			(iii)  Forecasted for each fiscal year for the remainder of the period of contract performance.

		(2)  Summary history of the contractor and its principal managers, disclosing any previous insolvencies whether corporate or personal, and describing its products or services.

		(3)  Statement of all affiliations disclosing?

			(i)  Material financial interests of the contractor;

			(ii)  Material financial interests in the contractor;

			(iii)  Material affiliations of owners, officers, directors, major stockholders; and

			(iv)  The major stockholders if the contractor is not a widely-traded, publicly-held corporation.

		(4)  Statement of all forms of compensation to each officer, manager, partner, joint venturer, or proprietor, as appropriate?

			(i)  Planned for the current year;

			(ii)  Paid during the past 2 years; and

			(iii)  Deferred to future periods.

		(5)  Business base and forecast that?

			(i)  Shows, by significant markets, existing contracts and outstanding offers, including those under negotiation; and

			(ii)  Is reconcilable to indirect cost rate projections.

		(6)  Cash forecast for the duration of the contract (see 232.072-3).

		(7)  Financing arrangement information that discloses?

			(i)  Availability of cash to finance contract performance;

			(ii)  Contractor's exposure to financial crisis from creditor's demands;

			(iii)  Degree to which credit security provisions could conflict with Government title terms under contract financing;

			(iv)  Clearly stated confirmations of credit with no unacceptable qualifications; and

			(v)  Unambiguous written agreement by a creditor if credit arrangements include deferred trade payments or creditor subordinations/repayment suspensions.

		(8)  Statement of all state, local, and Federal tax accounts, including special mandatory contributions, e.g., environmental superfund.

		(9)  Description and explanation of the financial effect of issues such as?

			(i)  Leases, deferred purchase arrangements, or patent or royalty arrangements;

			(ii)  Insurance, when relevant to the contract;

			(iii)  Contemplated capital expenditures, changes in equity, or contractor debt load;

			(iv)  Pending claims either by or against the contractor;

			(v)  Contingent liabilities such as guarantees, litigation, environmental, or product liabilities;

			(vi)  Validity of accounts receivable and actual value of inventory, as assets; and

			(vii)  Status and aging of accounts payable.

		(10)  Significant ratios such as?

			(i)  Inventory to annual sales;

			(ii)  Inventory to current assets;

			(iii)  Liquid assets to current assets;

			(iv)  Liquid assets to current liabilities;

			(v)  Current assets to current liabilities; and

			(vi)  Net worth to net debt.

232.072-3  Cash flow forecasts.

	(a)  Contractors are required to sustain a sufficient cash flow to perform the contract.  If the contractor's cashflow is questionable, the contracting officer should require the contractor to submit a cash flow forecast covering the duration of the contract.

	(b)  A contractor's inability or refusal to prepare and provide cash flow forecasts or to reconcile actual cash flow with previous forecasts is a strong indicator of serious managerial deficiencies or potential contract cost or performance problems.

	(c)  Single or one-time cash flow forecasts are of limited forecasting power and should be limited to preaward survey situations.  Establish reliable cash flow forecasts by comparing a series of previous actual cash flows with the corresponding forecasts and examining the causes of any differences.

	(d)   See PGI 232.072-3(d) for cash flow forecast requirements

	(e)  See PGI 232.072-3(e) for guidance on cash flow forecast assumptions. 

	(f)  The contracting officer should review the assumptions underlying the cash flow forecasts.  In determining whether the assumptions are reasonable and realistic, the contracting officer should consult with?

		(1)  The contractor;

		(2)  Government personnel in the areas of finance, engineering, production, cost, and price analysis; or

		(3)  Prospective supply, subcontract, and loan or credit sources.


SUBPART 232.1-FINANCING FOR OTHER THAN A COMMERCIAL PURCHASE

232.102  Description of contract financing methods.

	(e)(2)  Progress payments based on percentage or stage of completion are authorized only for contracts for construction (as defined in FAR 36.102), shipbuilding, and ship conversion, alteration, or repair.  However, percentage or stage of completion methods of measuring contractor performance may be used for performance-based payments in accordance with FAR Subpart 32.10.

232.102-70  Provisional delivery payments.
See PGI 232.102-70 if provisional delivery payments are contemplated.

232.104  Providing contract financing.
For fixed-price contracts with a period of performance in excess of a year that meet the dollar thresholds established in FAR 32.104(d), and for solicitations expected to result in such contracts, in lieu of the requirement at FAR 32.104(d)(1)(ii) for the contractor to demonstrate actual financial need or the unavailability of private financing, DoD has determined that-

	(1)  The use of customary contract financing (see FAR 32.113), other than loan guarantees and advance payments, is in DoD's best interest; and

	(2)  Further justification of its use in individual acquisition is unnecessary.


SUBPART 232.2-COMMERCIAL PRODUCT AND COMMERCIAL SERVICE PURCHASE FINANCING

232.202-4  Security for Government financing.

	(a)(2)  When determining whether an offeror's financial condition is adequate security, see 232.072-2 and 232.072-3 for guidance.  An offeror's financial condition may be sufficient to make the contractor responsible for award purposes, but may not be adequate security for commercial contract financing.

232.206  Solicitation provisions and contract clauses.

	(f)  Prompt payment for commercial purchase payments.  The contracting officer must incorporate the following standard prompt payment terms for commercial product and commercial service contract financing:

		(i)  Commercial advance payments:  The contractor entitlement date specified in the contract, or 30 days after receipt by the designated billing office of a proper request for payment, whichever is later.

		(ii)  Commercial interim payments:  The contractor entitlement date specified in the contract, or 14 days after receipt by the designated billing office of a proper request for payment, whichever is later.  The prompt payment standards for commercial delivery payments must be the same as specified in FAR Subpart 32.9 for invoice payments for the item delivered.

	(g)  Installment payment financing for commercial products and commercial services.  
Installment payment financing is prohibited unless market research has established that this form of contract financing is both appropriate and customary in the commercial marketplace.  When installment payment financing is used, the contracting officer must use the ceiling percentage of contract price that is customary in the particular marketplace (not to exceed the maximum rate established in FAR 52.232-30).

SUBPART 232.4-ADVANCE PAYMENTS FOR OTHER THAN COMMERCIAL ACQUISITIONS

232.404  Exclusions.

	(a)(9)  The requirements of FAR Subpart 32.4 do not apply to advertisements in high school and college publications for military recruitment efforts under 10 U.S.C. 503 when the contract cost does not exceed the micro-purchase threshold.

232.409  Contracting officer action.

232.409-1  Recommendation for approval.
Follow the procedures at PGI 232.409-1 for preparation of the documents required by FAR 32.409-1(e) and (f).

232.410  Findings, determination, and authorization.
If an advance payment procedure is used without a special bank account, follow the procedures at PGI 232.410.

232.412  Contract clause.

232.412-70  Additional clauses.

	(a)  Insert the clause at 252.232-7000, Advance Payment Pool, in any contract that will be subject to the terms of an advance payment pool agreement with a nonprofit organization or educational institution.  Normally, use the clause in all cost reimbursement type contracts with the organization or institution.

	(b)  Insert the clause at 252.232-7005, Reimbursement of Subcontractor Advance Payments-DoD Mentor-Protege Program, when advance payments will be provided by the contractor to a subcontractor pursuant to an approved mentor-protege agreement (see subpart 219.71).

232.470  Advance payment pool.

	(a)  An advance payment pool agreement-

		(1)  Is a means of financing the performance of more than one contract held by a single contractor;

		(2)  Is especially convenient for the financing of cost-type contracts with nonprofit educational or research institutions for experimental or research and development work when several contracts require financing by advance payments.  When appropriate, pooled advance payments may also be used to finance other types of contracts held by a single contractor; and

		(3)  May be established-

			(i)  Without regard to the number of appropriations involved;

			(ii)  To finance contracts for one or more department(s) or contracting activity(ies); or

			(iii)  In addition to any other advance payment pool agreement at a single contractor location when it is more convenient or otherwise preferable to have more than one agreement.

SUBPART 232.5-PROGRESS PAYMENTS BASED ON COSTS

232.501  General.

232.501-1  Customary progress payment rates.

	(a)  The customary progress payment rates for DoD contracts, including contracts that contain foreign military sales (FMS) requirements, are 80 percent for large business concerns and 90 percent for small business concerns.

232.501-2  Unusual progress payments.
Follow the procedures at PGI 232.501-2 for approval of unusual progress payments.

232.501-3  Contract price.

	(b)  The contracting officer may approve progress payments when the contract price exceeds the funds obligated under the contract, provided the contract limits the Government's liability to the lesser of-

		(i)  The applicable rate (i.e., the lower of the progress payment rate, the liquidation rate, or the loss-ratio adjusted rate); or

		(ii)  100 percent of the funds obligated.

232.502  Preaward matters.

232.502-4  Contract clauses.

232.502-4-70  Additional clauses.

	(a)  Insert the clause at 252.232-7002, Progress Payments for Foreign Military Sales Acquisitions, in solicitations and contracts that-

		(i)  Contain FMS requirements; and

		(ii)  Provide for progress payments.

	(b)  Insert the clause at 252.232-7004, DoD Progress Payment Rates, instead of Alternate I of the clause at FAR 52.232-16, if the contractor is a small business concern.

	(c)  Insert the clause at 252.232-7018, Progress Payments-Multiple Lots, to authorize separate progress payment requests for multiple lots.

232.503  Postaward matters.

232.503-6  Suspension or reduction of payments.

	(b)  Contractor noncompliance.  See also 242.7503.

	(g)  Loss contracts.  Use the following loss ratio adjustment procedures for making adjustments required by FAR 32.503-6(f) and (g)-

		(i)  Except as provided in paragraph (g)(ii) of this subsection, the contracting officer must prepare a supplementary analysis of the contractor's request for progress payments and calculate the loss ratio adjustment using the procedures in FAR 32.503-6(g).

		(ii)  The contracting officer may request the contractor to prepare the supplementary analysis as an attachment to the progress payment request when the contracting officer determines that the contractor's methods of estimating the "Costs to Complete" are reliable, accurate, and not susceptible to improper influences.

		(iii)  To maintain an audit trail and permit verification of calculations, do not make the loss ratio adjustments by altering or replacing data on the contractor's original request for progress payment (SF 1443, Contractor's Request for Progress Payment, or computer generated equivalent).

232.503-15  Application of Government title terms.

	(d)  An administrative contracting officer (ACO) determination that the contractor's material management and accounting system conforms to the system criteria at 252.242-7004(d)(7) constitutes the contracting officer approval requirement of FAR 32.503-15(d).  Prior to granting blanket approval of cost transfers between contracts, the ACO should determine that-

		(i)  The contractor retains records of the transfer activity that took place in the prior month;

		(ii)  The contractor prepares, at least monthly, a summary of the transfer activity that took place in the prior month; and

		(iii)  The summary report includes as a minimum, the total number and dollar value of transfers.

SUBPART 232.6-CONTRACT DEBTS

232.602  Responsibilities.

	(b)  Disbursing officers are those officials designated to make payments under a contract or to receive payments of amounts due under a contract.  The disbursing officer is responsible for determining the amount and collecting contract debts whenever overpayments or erroneous payments have been made.  The disbursing officer also has primary responsibility when the amounts due and dates for payment are contained in the contract, and a copy of the contract has been furnished to the disbursing officer with notice to collect as amounts become due.

232.603  Debt determination.
When transferring a case to the contract financing office, follow the procedures at PGI 232.603.

232.604  Demand for payment.
When issuing a demand for payment of a contract debt, follow the procedures at PGI 232.604.

232.610  Compromising debts.
Only the department/agency contract financing offices (see PGI 232.070(c)) are authorized to compromise debts covered by this subpart.

232.611  Contract clause.

	(a)  The Principal Director, Defense Pricing, Contracting, and Acquisition Policy, Office of the Under Secretary of Defense (Acquisition and Sustainment), may exempt the contracts in FAR 32.611(a)(2) through (5) and other contracts, in exceptional circumstances, from the administrative interest charges required by this subpart.

232.611-70  Additional exceptions.

Additional exceptions are-

 		(1)  Contracts for instructions of military or ROTC personnel at civilian schools, colleges, and universities;

 		(2)  Basic agreements with telephone companies for communications services and facilities, and purchases under such agreements; and

		(3)  Transportation contracts with common carriers for common carrier services.

232.670  Transfer of responsibility for debt collection.
Follow the procedures at PGI 232.670 for transferring responsibility for debt collection.

232.671  Bankruptcy reporting.
Follow the procedures at PGI 232.671 for bankruptcy reporting.

SUBPART 232.7-CONTRACT FUNDING

232.702  Policy.
Fixed-price contracts must be fully funded except as permitted by 232.703-1.

232.703  Contract funding requirements.

232.703-1  General.

	(1)  A fixed-price contract may be incrementally funded only if-

		(i)  The contract (excluding any options) or any exercised option-

			(A)  Is for severable services;

			(B)  Does not exceed one year in length; and

			(C)  Is incrementally funded using funds available (unexpired) as of the date the funds are obligated; or

		(ii)  The contract uses funds available from multiple (two or more) fiscal years and-

			(A)  The contract is funded with research and development appropriations; or

			(B)  Congress has otherwise authorized incremental funding.

	(2)  An incrementally funded fixed-price contract must be fully funded as soon as funds are available.

232.703-3  Contracts crossing fiscal years.

	(b)  The contracting officer may enter into a contract, exercise an option, or place an order under a contract for severable services for a period that begins in one fiscal year and ends in the next fiscal year if the period of the contract awarded, option exercised, 
or order placed does not exceed 1 year (10 U.S.C. 3133).

232.703-70  Military construction appropriations act restriction.
Annual military construction appropriations acts restrict the use of funds appropriated by the acts for payments under cost-plus-fixed-fee contracts (see 216.304-2).

232.704  Limitation of cost or funds.

232.704-70  Incrementally funded fixed-price contracts.

	(a)  Upon receipt of the contractor's notice under paragraph (c) of the clause at 252.232-7007, Limitation of Government's Obligation, the contracting officer must promptly provide written notice to the contractor that the Government is-

		(1)  Allotting additional funds for continued performance and increasing the Government's limitation of obligation in a specified amount;

		(2)  Terminating the contract; or

		(3)  Considering whether to allot additional funds; and

			(i)  The contractor is entitled by the contract terms to stop work when the Government's limitation of obligation is reached; and

			(ii)  Any costs expended beyond the Government's limitation of obligation are at the contractor's risk.

	(b)  Upon learning that the contract will receive no further funds, the contracting officer must promptly give the contractor written notice of the Government's decision and terminate for the convenience of the Government.

	(c)  The contracting officer must ensure that, in accordance with paragraph (b) of the clause at 252.232-7007, Limitation of Government's Obligation, sufficient funds are allotted to the contract to cover the total amount payable to the contractor in the event of termination for the convenience of the Government.

232.706  Contract clauses.

232.706-70  Clause for limitation of Government's obligation.
Insert the clause at 252.232-7007, Limitation of Government's Obligation, in solicitations and resultant incrementally funded fixed-price contracts.  The contracting officer may revise the contractor's notification period, in paragraph (c) of the clause, from "ninety" to "thirty" or "sixty" days, as appropriate.

SUBPART 232.8-ASSIGNMENT OF CLAIMS

232.803  Policies.

	(b)  Only contracts for personal services may prohibit the assignment of claims.

	(d)  DoD will not reduce or set off any money due or to become due under the contract when the proceeds under the contract have been assigned in accordance with the Assignment of Claims provision of the contract (reference 41 U.S.C. 6305, Presidential delegation dated October 3, 1995, Secretary of Defense delegation dated February 5, 1996, and Under Secretary of Defense (Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics) delegation dated February 23, 1996, and the Director of Defense Procurement determined on May 10, 1996 as published in the Federal Register on June 11, 1996).  Nevertheless, if departments/agencies decide it is in the Government's interest, or if the contracting officer makes a determination in accordance with FAR 32.803(d) concerning a significantly indebted offeror, they may exclude the no-setoff commitment.

232.805  Procedure.

	(b)  Upon receiving a notice of assignment, the contracting officer must direct the assignee to forward-

		(i)  To the administrative contracting officer (ACO), a true copy of the instrument of assignment and an original and three copies of the notice of assignment.  The ACO must acknowledge receipt by signing and dating all copies of the notice of assignment and must -

			(A)  File the true copy of the instrument of assignment and the original of the notice in the contract file;

			(B)  Forward two copies of the notice to the disbursing officer of the payment office cited in the contract;

			(C)  Return a copy of the notice to the assignee; and

			(D)  Advise the contracting officer of the assignment.

		(ii)  To the surety or sureties, if any, a true copy of the instrument of assignment and an original and three copies of the notice of assignment.  The surety shall return three acknowledged copies of the notice to the assignee, who shall forward two copies to the disbursing officer designated in the contract.

		(iii)  To the disbursing officer of the payment office cited in the contract, a true copy of the instrument of assignment and an original and one copy of the notice of assignment.  The disbursing officer must acknowledge and return to the assignee the copy of the notice and must file the true copy of the instrument and original notice.

232.806  Contract clauses.

	(a)(1)  Insert the clause at 252.232-7008, Assignment of Claims (Overseas), instead of the clause at FAR 52.232-23, Assignment of Claims, in solicitations and contracts when contract performance will be in a foreign country.

		(2)  Insert Alternate I with the clause at FAR 52.232-23, Assignment of Claims, unless otherwise authorized under 232.803(d).




SUBPART 232.9-PROMPT PAYMENT

232.901  Applicability.

	(1)  Except for FAR 32.908, FAR subpart 32.9, Prompt Payment, does not apply when-

		(i)  There is-

			(A)  An emergency, as defined in the Disaster Relief Act of 1974;

			(B)  A contingency operation (see FAR 2.101(b)); or

			(C)  The release or threatened release of hazardous substances (as defined in 4 U.S.C. 9606, section 106); 

		(ii)  The head of the contracting activity has made a determination, after consultation with the cognizant comptroller, that conditions exist that limit normal business operations; and 

		(iii)  Payments will be made in the operational area or made contingent upon receiving supporting documentation (i.e., contract, invoice, and receiving report) from the operational area.

	(2)  Criteria limiting normal business operations during emergencies and contingency operations that restrict the use of FAR 32.9 may include such conditions as-

		(i)  Support infrastructure, hardware, communications capabilities, and bandwidth are not consistently available such that normal business operations can be carried out;

		(ii)  Support resources, facilities, and banking needs are not consistently available for use as necessary in carrying out normal business operations;

		(iii)  Military mission priorities override the availability of appropriately skilled personnel in support of back-office operations;

		(iv)  Mobility impairments and security concerns restrict free movement of personnel and documents necessary for timely processing;

		(v)  Foreign vendors are not familiar with or do not understand DoD contract requirements (i.e., proper invoice, receiving documentation, and contracting terms); or

		(vi)  Documents received in support of payment requests and shipments require language translations that cannot be performed and documented within normal business processing times.

	(3)  Subsequent Determinations.  The head of the contracting activity must make subsequent determinations, after consultation with the cognizant comptroller, as the operational area evolves into either a more stable or less stable environment.

		(i)  If the head of the contracting activity determines that the operational area has evolved into a more stable environment, the contracting officer must notify, by issuance of a contract modification, each contractor performing in the operational area under review.  The modification deactivates this clause 252.232-7011 and activates the applicable FAR Prompt Payment clause in the contract.

		(ii)  If after deactivation of this clause, the head of the contracting activity subsequently determines that the operational area has evolved into a less stable environment, the head of the contracting activity will make a determination that conditions exist that limit normal business operations.  The contracting officer will then reactivate this clause 252.232-7011 by issuance of a contract modification.

232.903  Responsibilities.
In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 3801(b), DoD must assist small business concerns by providing payment as quickly as possible, to the fullest extent permitted by law, with a goal of 15 days after receipt of proper invoices and all required documentation, including acceptance, and before normal payment due dates established in the contract (see 232.906(a)).

232.904  Determining payment due dates.

	(d)  In most cases, Government acceptance or approval can occur within the 7-day constructive acceptance period specified in the FAR Prompt Payment clauses.  Government payment of construction progress payments can, in most cases, be made within the 14-day period allowed by the Prompt Payment for Construction Contracts clause.  While the contracting officer may specify a longer period because the period specified in the contract is not reasonable or practical, such change should be coordinated with the Government offices responsible for acceptance or approval and for payment.  Reasons for specifying a longer period include but are not limited to:  the nature of the work or supplies or services, inspection or testing requirements, shipping and acceptance terms, and resources available at the acceptance activity.  A constructive acceptance period of less than the cited 7 or 14 days is not authorized.

232.905  Payment documentation and process.

	(b)(1)(iii)  For task and delivery orders numbered in accordance with FAR 4.201 and 204.201, the 13-character order number may serve as the contract number on invoices and receiving reports.  The contract or agreement number under which the order was placed may be omitted from invoices and receiving reports.  The contractor may choose to identify both the contract number and the 13-character order number on invoices and receiving reports.  Task and delivery orders numbered with a four-position alpha-numeric call or order serial number must include both the 13-position basic contract Procurement Instrument Identifier and the four-position order number.

232.906  Making payments.

	(a)(i)  Generally, the contracting officer must insert the standard due date of 14 days for interim payments on cost-reimbursement contracts for services in the clause at FAR 52.232-25, Prompt Payment, when using the clause with its Alternate I.

		(ii)  The restrictions of FAR 32.906 prohibiting early payment do not apply to invoice payments made to small business concerns.  However, contractors are not entitled to interest penalties if the Government fails to make early payment.

232.908  Contract clauses.
Insert the clause at 252.232-7011, Payments in Support of Emergencies and Contingency Operations, in solicitations and contracts, including solicitations and contracts using FAR part 12 procedures for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services, in acquisitions that meet the applicability criteria at 232.901(1).  Use of this clause is in addition to use of either the approved Payment clause prescribed in FAR 32.908 or the clause at FAR 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions-Commercial Products and Commercial Services.


SUBPART 232.10-PERFORMANCE-BASED PAYMENTS

232.1001  Policy.

	(a)  As with all contract financing, the purpose of performance-based payments is to assist the contractor in the payment of costs incurred during the performance of the contract.  See PGI 232.1001(a) for additional information on use of performance-based payments.  However, in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 3802(a)(2), performance-based payments must not be conditioned upon costs incurred in contract performance, but on the achievement of performance outcomes.  Subject to the criteria in 232.1003-70, all companies, including nontraditional defense contractors, are eligible for performance-based payments, consistent with best commercial practices.

	(d)  The contracting officer must use the following standard payment terms for performance-based payments:  The contractor entitlement date, if any, specified in the contract, or 14 days after receipt by the designated billing office of a proper request for payment, whichever is later.

232.1003-70  Criteria for use.
In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 3802(c)(1), a contractor's financial statements must comply with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, in order to receive performance-based payments.  10 U.S.C. 3802(c)(2) does not grant the Defense Contract Audit Agency the authority to audit compliance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.

232.1004  Procedures.

	(b)  Establishing performance-based finance payment amounts.

		(i)  The contracting officer should include in a solicitation both the progress payments and performance-based payments provisions and clauses prescribed in this part, when considering both types of payment methods.  Only one type of financing will be included in the resultant contract, except as may be authorized on separate orders subject to FAR 32.1003(c)).

		(ii)  The contracting officer must analyze the performance-based payment schedule using the performance-based payments (PBP) analysis tool.  The PBP analysis 
tool is on the Defense Pricing, Contracting, and Acquisition Policy website in the Price, 
Cost and Finance section.  The PBP analysis tool and Performance Based Payment Guidebook are available at https://www.acq.osd.mil/asda/dpc/pcf/pricing-topics.html#pdp.

			(A)  When considering performance-based payments, obtain from the offeror/contractor a proposed performance-based payments schedule that includes all performance-based payments events, completion criteria and event values along with the projected monthly expenditure profile in order to negotiate the value of the performance events such that the performance-based payments are not expected to result in an unreasonably low or negative level of contractor investment in the contract.  If performance-based payments are deemed practical, the Government will evaluate and negotiate the details of the performance-based payments schedule.

			(B)  For modifications to contracts that already use performance-based payments financing, the basis for negotiation must include performance-based payments.  The PBP analysis tool will be used in the same manner to help determine the price for the modification;

		(iii)  The contracting officer must document in the contract file that the performance-based payment schedule provides a mutually beneficial settlement position that reflects adequate consideration to the Government for the improved contractor cash flow.

	(c)  Instructions for multiple appropriations.  If the contract contains foreign military sales requirements, the contracting officer must provide instructions for distribution of the contract financing payments to each country's account.

232.1005-70  Solicitation provisions and contract clauses.

	(a)  The contracting officer must insert the following clauses with appropriate fill-ins in solicitations and contracts that include performance-based payments:

		(1)  For performance-based payments made on a whole-contract basis, insert the clause at 252.232-7012, Performance-Based Payments-Whole-Contract Basis.

		(2)  For performance-based payments made on a deliverable-item basis, insert  the clause at 252.232-7013, Performance-Based Payments-Deliverable-Item Basis.

	(b)  Insert the provision at 252.232-7015, Performance-Based Payments-Representation, in solicitations where the resulting contract may include performance-based payments.

	(c)  Insert the provision at 252.232-7016, Notice of Progress Payments or Performance-Based Payments, in lieu of FAR 52.232-13, Notice of Progress Payments, when the solicitation contains clauses for progress payments and performance-based payments (only one type of financing will be included in the resultant contract, except as may be authorized on separate orders subject to FAR 32.1003(c)).

SUBPART 232.11-ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER

232.1108  Payment by Governmentwide commercial purchase card.

232.1108-70  Prohibition of Governmentwide commercial purchase card as a method of payment when the tax on certain foreign procurements applies.
Do not authorize the Governmentwide commercial purchase card as a method of payment during any contract period of performance if the contract includes the clause at FAR 52.229-12, Tax on Certain Foreign Procurements, unless the contract also includes the clause at 252.229-7014, Full Exemption from Two-Percent Excise Tax on Certain Foreign Procurements, indicating that the contractor is fully exempt from the tax.

232.1110-70  Solicitation provision and contract clauses.

Insert the clause at 252.232-7009, Mandatory Payment by Governmentwide Commercial Purchase Card, in solicitations, contracts, and agreements, including solicitations, contracts, and agreements using FAR part 12 procedures for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services, when-

	(1)  Placement of orders or calls valued at or below the micro-purchase threshold is anticipated; and

	(2)  Payment by Governmentwide commercial purchase card is required for orders or calls valued at or below the micro-purchase threshold under the contract or agreement.

232.12  Fast Payment Procedure.

232.1202  Conditions for use.

	(a)  Individual orders may exceed the simplified acquisition threshold for-

		(i)  Brand-name commercial product commissary resale subsistence; and

		(ii)  Medical supplies for direct shipment overseas.

SUBPART 232.70-ELECTRONIC SUBMISSION AND PROCESSING OF PAYMENT REQUESTS AND RECEIVING REPORTS

232.7000  Scope of subpart.
This subpart prescribes policies and procedures for submitting and processing payment requests in electronic form to comply with 10 U.S.C. 4601.

232.7001  Definitions.
As used in this subpart-

	"Electronic form" means any automated system that transmits information electronically from the initiating system to affected systems.

	"Payment request" means any request for contract financing payment or invoice payment submitted by the contractor under a contract or task or delivery order.

	"Receiving report" means the data prepared in the manner and to the extent required by Appendix F, Material Inspection and Receiving Report, of the DFARS.

232.7002  Policy.

	(a)  Contractors are required to submit payment  requests and receiving reports in electronic form, except for-

		(1)  Classified contracts or purchases when electronic submission and processing of payment requests and receiving reports could compromise the safeguarding of classified information or national security;

		(2)  Cases in which contractor submission of electronic payment requests and receiving reports is not feasible (e.g., when contract performance is in an environment where internet connectivity is not available);

		(3)  Cases in which DoD is unable to receive payment requests or provide acceptance in electronic form;

		(4)  Cases in which the contractor has requested permission in writing to submit payment requests and receiving reports by nonelectronic means, and the contracting officer has provided instructions for a temporary alternative method of submission of payment requests and receiving reports in the contract administration data section of the contract or task or delivery order (e.g., section G, an addendum to FAR 52.212-4, or applicable clause); and

		(5)  When the Governmentwide commercial purchase card is used as the method of payment, in which case only submission of the receiving report in electronic form is required.

	(b)(1)  The only acceptable electronic form for submission of payment requests and receiving reports is Wide Area WorkFlow (WAWF) (https://wawf.eb.mil/), except as follows:

			(i)  For payment of commercial transportation services provided under a Government rate tender, contract, or task or delivery order for transportation services, the use of a DoD-approved electronic third party payment system or other exempted vendor payment/invoicing system (e.g., PowerTrack, Transportation Financial Management System, and Cargo and Billing System) is permitted.

			(ii)  For submitting and processing payment requests and receiving reports for contracts or task or delivery orders for rendered health care services, the use of TRICARE Encounter Data System as the electronic form is permitted.

		(2)  Facsimile, email, and scanned documents are not acceptable electronic forms of payment requests or receiving reports.

232.7003  Procedures.
Follow the procedures at PGI 232.7003 for processing electronic payments.

232.7004  Contract clauses.

	(a)  Unless an exception to submission in electronic form at 232.7002(a) applies and instructions for invoices are contained in the contract administration data section of the contract, task order, or delivery order, insert the clause at 252.232-7003, Electronic Submission of Payment Requests and Receiving Reports, in solicitations and contracts, including solicitations and contracts using FAR part 12 procedures for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services.

	(b)  Insert the clause at 252.232-7006, Wide Area WorkFlow Payment Instructions, in solicitations and contracts, task orders, or delivery orders, including solicitations and contracts using FAR part 12 procedures for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services, when 252.232-7003 is used and none of the exceptions at 232.7002(b)(1) apply.  See  PGI 232.7004 for instructions on completing the clause.

SUBPART 232.71-LEVIES ON CONTRACT PAYMENTS

232.7100  Scope of subpart.
This subpart prescribes policies and procedures concerning the effect of levies pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 6331(h) on contract payments.  The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is authorized to levy up to 100 percent of all payments made under a DoD contract, up to the amount of the tax debt.

232.7101  Policy and procedures.

	(a)  Contractors are required to-

		(1)  Promptly notify the contracting officer when a levy may result in an inability to perform the contract; and

		(2)  Advise the contracting officer whether the inability to perform may adversely affect national security.

	(b)  The contracting officer must promptly notify the Principal Director, Defense Pricing, Contracting, and Acquisition Policy (DPCAP) when the contractor's inability to perform will adversely affect national security or will result in significant additional costs to the Government.  Follow the procedures at PGI 232.7101(b) for reviewing the contractor's rationale and submitting the required notification.

	(c)  The Principal Director, DPCAP, will promptly evaluate the contractor's rationale and will notify the IRS, the contracting officer, and the payment office, as appropriate, in accordance with the procedures at PGI 232.7101(c).

	(d)  The contracting officer must then notify the contractor in accordance with paragraph (c) of the clause at 252.232-7010 and in accordance with the procedures at PGI 232.7101(d).

232.7102  Contract clause.
Insert the clause at 252.232-7010, Levies on Contract Payments, in all solicitations and contracts, including solicitations and contracts using FAR part 12 procedures for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services.

SUBPART 252.2--TEXT OF PROVISIONS AND CLAUSES

252.232-7000  Advance Payment Pool.
As prescribed in 232.412-70(a), use the following clause:
 
ADVANCE PAYMENT POOL (APR 2020)
 
	(a)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this contract, advance payments will be made for contract performance in accordance with the Determinations, Findings, and Authorization for Advance payment dated __________________________.
 
      (b)  Payments made in accordance with this clause shall be governed by the terms and conditions of the Advance Payment Pool Agreement between the United States of America and [insert the name of the Contractor].  The Agreement is incorporated in the contract by reference.
 
      (c)  When a letter of credit has not been issued to the Contractor in conjunction with the contract, payment will be by a dual payee Treasury check made payable to the Contractor or the disbursing office in the Advance Payment Pool Agreement and will be forwarded to that disbursing office for appropriate disposition.
 
(End of clause)
 
252.232-7001  Reserved.
 
252.232-7002  Progress Payments for Foreign Military Sales Acquisitions.
As prescribed in 232.502-4-70(a), use the following clause:
 
PROGRESS PAYMENTS FOR FOREIGN MILITARY SALES ACQUISITIONS (MAY 2023)
 
If this contract includes foreign military sales (FMS) requirements, the Contractor shall-
 
      (a)  Submit separate progress payment requests for the FMS and U.S. line items in the contract;
 
      (b)  Submit a supporting schedule showing the amount of each request distributed to each country's requirements;
 
      (c)  Identify in each progress payment request the contract requirements to which it applies (i.e., FMS or U.S.);
 
      (d)  Calculate each request on the basis of the prices, costs (including costs to complete), subcontract financing, and progress payment liquidations of the contract requirements to which it applies; and
 
      (e)  Distribute costs among the countries in a manner acceptable to the Administrative Contracting Officer.
 
(End of clause)
 
252.232-7003 Electronic Submission of Payment Requests and Receiving Reports.
As prescribed in 232.7004(a), use the following clause:
 
ELECTRONIC SUBMISSION OF PAYMENT REQUESTS AND RECEIVING REPORTS (DEC 2018)
 
      (a)  Definitions.  As used in this clause-
 
      "Contract financing payment" means an authorized Government disbursement of monies to a contractor prior to acceptance of supplies or services by the Government.
 
              (1)  Contract financing payments include-
 
                    (i)  Advance payments;
 
                    (ii)  Performance-based payments;
 
                    (iii)  Commercial advance and interim payments;
 
                    (iv)  Progress payments based on cost under the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.232-16, Progress Payments;
 
                    (v)  Progress payments based on a percentage or stage of completion (see FAR 32.102(e)), except those made under the clause at FAR 52.232-5, Payments Under Fixed-Price Construction Contracts, or the clause at FAR 52.232-10, Payments Under Fixed-Price Architect-Engineer Contracts; and
 
                    (vi)  Interim payments under a cost reimbursement contract, except for a cost reimbursement contract for services when Alternate I of the clause at FAR 52.232-25, Prompt Payment, is used.
 
              (2)  Contract financing payments do not include-
 
                    (i)  Invoice payments;
 
                    (ii)  Payments for partial deliveries; or
 
                    (iii)  Lease and rental payments.
 
      "Electronic form" means any automated system that transmits information electronically from the initiating system to affected systems.
 
      "Invoice payment" means a Government disbursement of monies to a contractor under a contract or other authorization for supplies or services accepted by the Government.
 
              (1)  Invoice payments include-
 
                    (i)  Payments for partial deliveries that have been accepted by the Government;
 
                    (ii)  Final cost or fee payments where amounts owed have been settled between the Government and the contractor;
 
                    (iii)  For purposes of subpart 32.9 only, all payments made under the clause at 52.232-5, Payments Under Fixed-Price Construction Contracts, and the clause at 52.232-10, Payments Under Fixed-Price Architect-Engineer Contracts; and
 
                    (iv)  Interim payments under a cost-reimbursement contract for services when Alternate I of the clause at 52.232-25, Prompt Payment, is used.
 
              (2)  Invoice payments do not include contract financing payments.
 
      "Payment request" means any request for contract financing payment or invoice payment submitted by the Contractor under this contract or task or delivery order.
 
      "Receiving report" means the data prepared in the manner and to the extent required by Appendix F, Material Inspection and Receiving Report, of the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement.
 
      (b)  Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this clause, the Contractor shall submit payment requests and receiving reports in electronic form using Wide Area WorkFlow (WAWF). The Contractor shall prepare and furnish to the Government a receiving report at the time of each delivery of supplies or services under this contract or task or delivery order. .
 
      (c)  Submit payment requests and receiving reports to WAWF in one of the following electronic formats:
 
              (1)  Electronic Data Interchange.
 
              (2)  Secure File Transfer Protocol.
 
              (3)  Direct input through the WAWF website.
 
      (d)  The Contractor may submit a payment request and receiving report using methods other than WAWF only when-
 
              (1)  The Contractor has requested permission in writing to do so, and the Contracting Officer has provided instructions for a temporary alternative method of submission of payment requests and receiving reports in the contract administration data section of this contract or task or delivery order;
 
              (2)  DoD makes payment for commercial transportation services provided under a Government rate tender or a contract for transportation services using a DoD-approved electronic third party payment system or other exempted vendor payment/invoicing system (e.g., PowerTrack, Transportation Financial Management System, and Cargo and Billing System);
 
              (3)  DoD makes payment on a contract or task or delivery order for rendered health care services using the TRICARE Encounter Data System; or
 
              (4)  The Governmentwide commercial purchase card is used as the method of payment, in which case submission of only the receiving report in WAWF is required.
 
      (e)  Information regarding WAWF is available at https://wawf.eb.mil/.
 
      (f)  In addition to the requirements of this clause, the Contractor shall meet the requirements of the appropriate payment clauses in this contract when submitting payment requests.
 
(End of clause)
 
252.232-7004  DoD Progress Payment Rates.
As prescribed in 232.502-4-70(b), use the following clause:
 
DOD PROGRESS PAYMENT RATES (OCT 2014)
 
If the Contractor is a small business concern, the Progress Payments clause of this contract is modified to change each mention of the progress payment rate and liquidation rate (excepting paragraph (k), Limitations on Undefinitized Contract Actions) to 90 percent.
 
(End of clause)
 
252.232-7005  Reimbursement of Subcontractor Advance Payments-DoD Mentor-Protégé Program.
As prescribed in 232.412-70(b), use the following clause:
 
REIMBURSEMENT OF SUBCONTRACTOR ADVANCE PAYMENTS-DOD MENTOR-PROTEGE PROGRAM (MAR 2024)
 
      (a)  The Government will reimburse the Contractor for any advance payments made by the Contractor, as a mentor firm, to a protege firm, pursuant to an approved mentor-protege agreement, provided-
 
              (1)  The Contractor's subcontract with the protege firm includes a provision substantially the same as FAR 52.232-12, Advance Payments;
 
              (2)  The Contractor has administered the advance payments in accordance with the policies of FAR Subpart 32.4; and
 
              (3)  The Contractor agrees that any financial loss resulting from the failure or inability of the protege firm to repay any unliquidated advance payments is the sole financial responsibility of the Contractor.
 
      (b)  For a fixed price type contract, advance payments made to a protege firm shall be paid and administered as if they were 100 percent progress payments.  The Contractor shall include as a separate attachment with each Standard Form (SF) 1443, Contractor's Request for Progress Payment, a request for reimbursement of advance payments made to a protege firm.  The attachment shall provide a separate calculation of lines 14a through 14e of SF 1443 for each protege, reflecting the status of advance payments made to that protege.
 
      (c)  For cost reimbursable contracts, reimbursement of advance payments shall be made via public voucher.  The Contractor shall show the amounts of advance payments made to each protege on the public voucher, in the form and detail directed by the cognizant contracting officer or contract auditor.
 
(End of clause)
 
252.232-7006  Wide Area WorkFlow Payment Instructions.
 
As prescribed in 232.7004(b), use the following clause:
 
WIDE AREA WORKFLOW PAYMENT INSTRUCTIONS (JAN 2023)
 
      (a)  Definitions.  As used in this clause-
 
      "Department of Defense Activity Address Code (DoDAAC)" is a six position code that uniquely identifies a unit, activity, or organization.
 
      "Document type" means the type of payment request or receiving report available for creation in Wide Area WorkFlow (WAWF).
 
      "Local processing office (LPO)" is the office responsible for payment certification when payment certification is done external to the entitlement system.
 
      "Payment request" and "receiving report" are defined in the clause at 252.232-7003, Electronic Submission of Payment Requests and Receiving Reports.
 
      (b)  Electronic invoicing.  The WAWF system provides the method to electronically process vendor payment requests and receiving reports, as authorized by Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS) 252.232-7003, Electronic Submission of Payment Requests and Receiving Reports.
 
      (c)  WAWF access.  To access WAWF, the Contractor shall-
 
              (1)  Have a designated electronic business point of contact in the System for Award Management at https://www.sam.gov; and
 
              (2)  Be registered to use WAWF at https://wawf.eb.mil/ following the step-by-step procedures for self-registration available at this web site.
 
      (d)  WAWF training.  The Contractor should follow the training instructions of the WAWF Web-Based Training Course and use the Practice Training Site before submitting payment requests through WAWF. Both can be accessed by selecting the "Web Based Training" link on the WAWF home page at https://wawf.eb.mil/
 
      (e)  WAWF methods of document submission.  Document submissions may be via web entry, Electronic Data Interchange, or File Transfer Protocol.
 
      (f)  WAWF payment instructions.  The Contractor shall use the following information when submitting payment requests and receiving reports in WAWF for this contract or task or delivery order:
 
              (1)  Document type.  The Contractor shall submit payment requests using the following document type(s):
 
                    (i)  For cost-type line items, including labor-hour or time-and-materials, submit a cost voucher.
 
                    (ii)  For fixed price line items-
 
                            (A)  That require shipment of a deliverable, submit the invoice and receiving report specified by the Contracting Officer.
 
___________________________________________________________
(Contracting Officer: Insert applicable invoice and receiving report document type(s) for fixed price line items that require shipment of a deliverable.)
 
                            (B)  For services that do not require shipment of a deliverable, submit either the Invoice 2in1, which meets the requirements for the invoice and receiving report, or the applicable invoice and receiving report, as specified by the Contracting Officer.
 
 
___________________________________________________________
              (Contracting Officer: Insert either "Invoice 2in1" or the applicable invoice and receiving report document type(s) for fixed price line items for services.)
 
                    (iii)  For customary progress payments based on costs incurred, submit a progress payment request.
 
                    (iv)  For performance based payments, submit a performance based payment request.
 
                    (v)  For commercial financing, submit a commercial financing request.
 
              (2)  ) Fast Pay requests are only permitted when Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.213-1 is included in the contract.
 
      [Note: The Contractor may use a WAWF "combo" document type to create some combinations of invoice and receiving report in one step.]
 
              (3)  Document routing.  The Contractor shall use the information in the Routing Data Table below only to fill in applicable fields in WAWF when creating payment requests and receiving reports in the system.
 
                                                                                 Routing Data Table*
Field Name in WAWFData to be entered in WAWFPay Official DoDAAC Issue By DoDAAC Admin DoDAAC Inspect By DoDAAC Ship To Code Ship From Code Mark For Code Service Approver (DoDAAC) Service Acceptor (DoDAAC) Accept at Other DoDAAC LPO DoDAAC DCAA Auditor DoDAAC Other DoDAAC(s) (*Contracting Officer: Insert applicable DoDAAC information. If multiple ship to/acceptance locations apply, insert "See Schedule" or "Not applicable.")
 
(**Contracting Officer: If the contract provides for progress payments or performance-based payments, insert the DoDAAC for the contract administration office assigned the functions under FAR 42.302(a)(13).)
 
              (4)  Payment request.  The Contractor shall ensure a payment request includes documentation appropriate to the type of payment request in accordance with the payment clause, contract financing clause, or Federal Acquisition Regulation 52.216-7, Allowable Cost and Payment, as applicable.
 
              (5)  Receiving report.  The Contractor shall ensure a receiving report meets the requirements of DFARS Appendix F.
 
      (g)  WAWF point of contact.
 
              (1)  The Contractor may obtain clarification regarding invoicing in WAWF from the following contracting activity's WAWF point of contact.
 
___________________________________________________________
(Contracting Officer: Insert applicable information or "Not applicable.")
 
              (2)  Contact the WAWF helpdesk at 866-618-5988, if assistance is needed.
 
(End of clause)
 
252.232-7007  Limitation of Government's Obligation.
As prescribed in 232.706-70, use the following clause:
 
LIMITATION OF GOVERNMENT'S OBLIGATION (APR 2014)
 
      (a)  Contract line item(s)   [Contracting Officer insert after negotiations]   is/are incrementally funded. For this/these item(s), the sum of $   [Contracting Officer insert after negotiations]  of the total price is presently available for payment and allotted to this contract. An allotment schedule is set forth in paragraph (j) of this clause.
 
      (b)  For item(s) identified in paragraph (a) of this clause, the Contractor agrees to perform up to the point at which the total amount payable by the Government, including reimbursement in the event of termination of those item(s) for the Government's convenience, approximates the total amount currently allotted to the contract.  The Contractor is not authorized to continue work on those item(s) beyond that point.  The Government will not be obligated in any event to reimburse the Contractor in excess of the amount allotted to the contract for those item(s) regardless of anything to the contrary in the clause entitled "Termination for Convenience of the Government."  As used in this clause, the total amount payable by the Government in the event of termination of applicable contract line item(s) for convenience includes costs, profit, and estimated termination settlement costs for those item(s).
 
      (c)  Notwithstanding the dates specified in the allotment schedule in paragraph (j) of this clause, the Contractor will notify the Contracting Officer in writing at least ninety days prior to the date when, in the Contractor's best judgment, the work will reach the point at which the total amount payable by the Government, including any cost for termination for convenience, will approximate 85 percent of the total amount then allotted to the contract for performance of the applicable item(s).  The notification will state (1) the estimated date when that point will be reached and (2) an estimate of additional funding, if any, needed to continue performance of applicable line items up to the next scheduled date for allotment of funds identified in paragraph (j) of this clause, or to a mutually agreed upon substitute date.  The notification will also advise the Contracting Officer of the estimated amount of additional funds that will be required for the timely performance of the item(s) funded pursuant to this clause, for a subsequent period as may be specified in the allotment schedule in paragraph (j) of this clause or otherwise agreed to by the parties.  If after such notification additional funds are not allotted by the date identified in the Contractor's notification, or by an agreed substitute date, the Contracting Officer will terminate any item(s) for which additional funds have not been allotted, pursuant to the clause of this contract entitled "Termination for Convenience of the Government."
 
      (d)  When additional funds are allotted for continued performance of the contract line item(s) identified in paragraph (a) of this clause, the parties will agree as to the period of contract performance which will be covered by the funds.  The provisions of paragraphs (b) through (d) of this clause will apply in like manner to the additional allotted funds and agreed substitute date, and the contract will be modified accordingly.
 
      (e)  If, solely by reason of failure of the Government to allot additional funds, by the dates indicated below, in amounts sufficient for timely performance of the contract line item(s) identified in paragraph (a) of this clause, the Contractor incurs additional costs or is delayed in the performance of the work under this contract and if additional funds are allotted, an equitable adjustment will be made in the price or prices (including appropriate target, billing, and ceiling prices where applicable) of the item(s), or in the time of delivery, or both.  Failure to agree to any such equitable adjustment hereunder will be a dispute concerning a question of fact within the meaning of the clause entitled "Disputes."
 
      (f)  The Government may at any time prior to termination allot additional funds for the performance of the contract line item(s) identified in paragraph (a) of this clause.
 
      (g)  The termination provisions of this clause do not limit the rights of the Government under the clause entitled "Default."  The provisions of this clause are limited to the work and allotment of funds for the contract line item(s) set forth in paragraph (a) of this clause.  This clause no longer applies once the contract is fully funded except with regard to the rights or obligations of the parties concerning equitable adjustments negotiated under paragraphs (d) and (e) of this clause.
 
      (h)  Nothing in this clause affects the right of the Government to terminate this contract pursuant to the clause of this contract entitled "Termination for Convenience of the Government."
 
      (i)  Nothing in this clause shall be construed as authorization of voluntary services whose acceptance is otherwise prohibited under 31 U.S.C. 1342.
 
      (j)  The parties contemplate that the Government will allot funds to this contract in accordance with the following schedule:
 
On execution of contract$ ________(month) (day), (year)$ ________(month) (day), (year)$ ________(month) (day), (year)$ ________ 
(End of clause)
 
252.232-7008  Assignment of Claims (Overseas).
As prescribed in 232.806(a)(1), use the following clause:
 
ASSIGNMENT OF CLAIMS (OVERSEAS) (JUN 1997)
 
      (a)  No claims for monies due, or to become due, shall be assigned by the Contractor unless3/4
 
              (1)  Approved in writing by the Contracting Officer;
 
              (2)  Made in accordance with the laws and regulations of the United States of America; and
 
              (3)  Permitted by the laws and regulations of the Contractor's country.
 
      (b)  In no event shall copies of this contract or of any plans, specifications, or other similar documents relating to work under this contract, if marked "Top Secret," "Secret," or "Confidential" be furnished to any assignee of any claim arising under this contract or to any other person not entitled to receive such documents.  However, a copy of any part or all of this contract so marked may be furnished, or any information contained herein may be disclosed, to such assignee upon the Contracting Officer's prior written authorization.
 
      (c)  Any assignment under this contract shall cover all amounts payable under this contract and not already paid, and shall not be made to more than one party, except that any such assignment may be made to one party as agent or trustee for two or more parties participating in such financing.  On each invoice or voucher submitted for payment under this contract to which any assignment applies, and for which direct payment thereof is to be made to an assignee, the Contractor shall3/4
 
              (1)  Identify the assignee by name and complete address; and
 
              (2)  Acknowledge the validity of the assignment and the right of the named assignee to receive payment in the amount invoiced or vouchered.
 
(End of clause)
 
252.232-7009  Mandatory Payment by Governmentwide Commercial Purchase Card.
As prescribed in 232.1110, use the following clause:
 
MANDATORY PAYMENT BY GOVERNMENTWIDE COMMERCIAL PURCHASE CARD (MAY 2018)
 
The Contractor agrees to accept the Governmentwide commercial purchase card as the method of payment for orders or calls valued at or below the micro-purchase threshold in part 202 of the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement, under this contract or agreement.
 
(End of clause)
 
252.232-7010  Levies on Contract Payments.
As prescribed in 232.7102, use the following clause:
 
LEVIES ON CONTRACT PAYMENTS (DEC 2006)
 
      (a)  26 U.S.C. 6331(h) authorizes the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to continuously levy up to 100 percent of contract payments, up to the amount of tax debt.
 
      (b)  When a levy is imposed on a payment under this contract and the Contractor believes that the levy may result in an inability to perform the contract, the Contractor shall promptly notify the Procuring Contracting Officer in writing, with a copy to the Administrative Contracting Officer, and shall provide-
 
            (1)  The total dollar amount of the levy;
 
            (2)  A statement that the Contractor believes that the levy may result in an inability to perform the contract, including rationale and adequate supporting documentation; and
 
            (3)  Advice as to whether the inability to perform may adversely affect national security, including rationale and adequate supporting documentation.
 
      (c)  DoD shall promptly review the Contractor's assessment, and the Procuring Contracting Officer shall provide a written notification to the Contractor including-
 
      (1)  A statement as to whether DoD agrees that the levy may result in an inability to perform the contract; and
 
      (2)(i)  If the levy may result in an inability to perform the contract and the lack of performance will adversely affect national security, the total amount of the monies collected that should be returned to the Contractor; or
 
           (ii)  If the levy may result in an inability to perform the contract but will not impact national security, a recommendation that the Contractor promptly notify the IRS to attempt to resolve the tax situation.
 
(d)  Any DoD determination under this clause is not subject to appeal under the Contract Disputes Act.
 
(End of clause)

252.232-7011 Payments in Support of Emergencies and Contingency Operations.
As prescribed in 232.908, use the following clause:
 
PAYMENTS IN SUPPORT OF EMERGENCIES AND CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (MAY 2013)
 
      (a)  Definitions of pertinent terms are set forth in sections 2.101, 32.001, and 32.902 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
 
      (b)  Notwithstanding any other payment clause in this contract, the Government will make invoice payments under the terms and conditions specified in this clause.  The Government considers payment as being made on the day a check is dated or the date of an electronic funds transfer. 
 
      (c)  Invoice payments.
 
(1)  Due date.
 
                        (i)  Payment will be made as soon as possible once a proper invoice is received and matched with the contract and the receiving/acceptance report.
 
(ii)  If the contract does not require submission of an invoice for payment (e.g., periodic lease payments), the due date will be as specified in the contract.
 
(2)  Contractor's invoice. The Contractor shall prepare and submit invoices to the designated billing office specified in the contract.  A proper invoice should include the items listed in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(x) of this clause. 
 
(i)  Name and address of the Contractor.
 
(ii)  Invoice date and invoice number. (The Contractor should date invoices as close as possible to the date of the mailing or transmission.)
 
(iii)  Contract number or other authorization for supplies delivered or services performed (including order number and contract line item number).
 
(iv)  Description, quantity, unit of measure, unit price, and extended price of supplies delivered or services performed.
 
(v)  Shipping and payment terms (e.g., shipment number and date of shipment, discount for prompt payment terms).  Bill of lading number and weight of shipment will be shown for shipments on Government bills of lading.
 
(vi)  Name and address of Contractor official to whom payment is to be sent (must be the same as that in the contract or in a proper notice of assignment).
 
(vii)  Name (where practicable), title, phone number, and mailing address of person to notify in the event of a defective invoice.
 
(viii)  Taxpayer Identification Number (when required).  The taxpayer identification number is required for all payees subject to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.
 
(ix)  Electronic funds transfer banking information.
 
(A)  The Contractor shall include electronic funds transfer banking information on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract.
 
(B)  If electronic funds transfer banking information is not required to be on the invoice, in order for the invoice to be a proper invoice, the Contractor shall have submitted correct electronic funds transfer banking information in accordance with the applicable solicitation provision (e.g., FAR 52.232-38, Submission of Electronic Funds Transfer Information with Offer), contract clause (e.g., FAR 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer-System for Award Management, or FAR 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer-Other Than System for Award Management), or applicable agency procedures.
 
(C)  Electronic funds transfer banking information is not required if the Government waived the requirement to pay by electronic funds transfer.
(x)  Any other information or documentation required by the contract (e.g., evidence of shipment).
 
(3)  Discounts for prompt payment. The designated payment office will take cost-effective discounts if the payment is made within the discount terms of the contract.
 
(4)  Contract financing payment. If this contract provides for contract financing, the Government will make contract financing payments in accordance with the applicable contract financing clause.
 
(5)  Overpayments. If the Contractor becomes aware of a duplicate contract financing or invoice payment or that the Government has otherwise overpaid on a contract financing or invoice payment, the Contractor shall-
 
                        (i)  Remit the overpayment amount to the payment office cited in the contract along with a description of the overpayment, including the-
 
                                    (A)  Circumstances of the overpayment (e.g., duplicate payment, erroneous payment, liquidation errors, date(s) of overpayment);
 
                                    (B)  Affected contract number and delivery order number, if applicable;
 
                                    (C)  Affected contract line item or subline item, if applicable; and
 
                                    (D)  Contractor point of contact; and
 
                        (ii)  Provide a copy of the remittance and supporting documentation to the Contracting Officer.
 
      (d)  This clause is applicable until otherwise notified by the Contracting Officer.  Upon notification by issuance of a contract modification, the appropriate FAR Prompt Payment clause in the contract becomes applicable. 
 
(End of clause)
 
252.232-7012  Performance-Based Payments-Whole-Contract Basis.
As prescribed in 232.1005-70(a)(1), use the following clause:
 
PERFORMANCE-BASED PAYMENTS-WHOLE-CONTRACT BASIS (DEC 2022)
 
      (a)  Performance-based payments shall form the basis for the contract financing payments provided under this contract, and shall apply to the whole contract. The performance-based payments schedule (Contract Attachment ____) describes the basis for payment, to include identification of the individual payment events, evidence of completion, and amount of payment due upon completion of each event.
 
      (b)  In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 3802(c), the Contractor's financial statements shall be in compliance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in order to receive performance-based payments.
 
      (c)(1)  The Contractor shall, in addition to providing the information required by FAR 52.232-32, submit information for all payment requests using the following format:
 
Current performance-based payment(s) event(s) addressed by this request:

Contractor shall identify-AmountTotals(1a) Negotiated value of all previously completed performance-based payment(s) event(s);  (1b) Negotiated value of the current performance-based payment(s) event(s);  (1c) Cumulative negotiated value of performance-based payment(s) events completed to date (1a) + (1b); and  (2) Total costs incurred to date.   
              (2)  Incurred cost is determined by the Contractor's accounting books and records, to which the Contractor shall provide access upon request of the Contracting Officer. An acceptable accounting system in accordance with DFARS 252.242-7006 is not required for reporting of incurred costs under this clause. If the Contractor's accounting system is not capable of tracking costs on a job order basis, the Contractor shall provide a realistic approximation of the allocation of incurred costs attributable to this contract in accordance with the Contractor's accounting system. FAR 52.232-32(m) does not require certification of incurred costs.
 
      (d)  Security for financing.
 
              (1)  Title to the property described in paragraph (f) of the clause at FAR 52.232-32, Performance-Based Payments, is the preferred security for receipt of performance-based payments.
 
              (2)(i)  If the Contractor's accounting system is not capable of identifying and tracking through the build cycle the property that is allocable and properly chargeable to this contract, the Contracting Officer may consider acceptance of one or a combination of the following alternative forms of security sufficient to constitute adequate security for the performance-based payments and so specify in the contract, consistent with FAR 32.202-4:
 
                            (A)  A paramount lien on assets.
 
                            (B)  An irrevocable letter of credit from a federally insured financial institution.
 
                            (C)  A bond from a surety, acceptable in accordance with FAR part 28.
 
                            (D)  A guarantee of repayment from a person or corporation of demonstrated liquid net worth, connected by significant ownership interest to the Contractor.
 
                            (E)  Title to identified Contractor assets of adequate worth.
 
                    (ii)  Paragraph (f) of the clause at FAR 52.232-32 does not apply to the extent that the Contractor and the Contracting Officer agree on alternative forms of security. In the event the Contractor fails to provide adequate security, as required in this contract, no financing payment will be made under this contract. Upon receipt of adequate security, financing payments will be made, including all previous payments to which the Contractor is entitled, in accordance with the terms of the provisions for contract financing. If at any time the Contracting Officer determines that the security provided by the Contractor is insufficient, the Contractor shall promptly provide such additional security as the Contracting Officer determines necessary. In the event the Contractor fails to provide such additional security, the Contracting Officer may collect or liquidate such security that has been provided and suspend further payments to the Contractor; and the Contractor shall repay to the Government the amount of unliquidated financing payments as the Contracting Officer at his sole discretion deems repayable.
 
(End of clause)
 
252.232-7013  Performance-Based Payments-Deliverable-Item Basis.
As prescribed in 232.1005-70(a)(2), use the following clause:
 
PERFORMANCE-BASED PAYMENTS-DELIVERABLE-ITEM BASIS (DEC 2022)
 
      (a)  Performance-based payments shall form the basis for the contract financing payments provided under this contract and shall apply to Contract Line Item Numbers (CLIN(s))   [Contracting Officer insert applicable CLIN(s)] . The performance-based payments schedule (Contract Attachment ____) describes the basis for payment, to include identification of the individual payment events, CLINs to which each event applies, evidence of completion, and amount of payment due upon completion of each event.
 
      (b)  In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 3802(c), the Contractor's financial statements shall be in compliance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in order to receive performance-based payments.
 
      (c)(1)  The Contractor shall, in addition to providing the information required by FAR 52.232-32, submit information for all payment requests using the following format:
 
Current performance-based payment(s) event(s) addressed by this request:

Contractor shall identify-AmountTotals(1a) Negotiated value of all previously completed performance-based payment(s) event(s);  (1b) Negotiated value of the current performance-based payment(s) event(s);  (1c) Cumulative negotiated value of performance-based payment(s) event(s) completed to date (1a) + (1b); and  (2) Total costs incurred to date.   
              (2)  Incurred cost is determined by the Contractor's accounting books and records, to which the Contractor shall provide access upon request of the Contracting Officer. An acceptable accounting system in accordance with DFARS 252.242-7006 is not required for reporting of incurred costs under this clause. If the Contractor's accounting system is not capable of tracking costs on a job order basis, the Contractor shall provide a realistic approximation of the allocation of incurred costs attributable to this contract in accordance with the Contractor's accounting system. FAR 52.232-32(m) does not require certification of incurred costs.
 
      (d)  Security for financing.
 
              (1)  Title to the property described in paragraph (f) of the clause at FAR 52.232-32, Performance-Based Payments, is the preferred security for receipt of performance-based payments.
 
              (2)(i)  If the Contractor's accounting system is not capable of identifying and tracking through the build cycle the property that is allocable and properly chargeable to this contract, the Contracting Officer may consider acceptance of one or a combination of the following alternative forms of security sufficient to constitute adequate security for the performance-based payments and so specify in the contract, consistent with FAR 32.202-4:
 
                            (A)  A paramount lien on assets.
 
                            (B)  An irrevocable letter of credit from a federally insured financial institution.
 
                            (C)  A bond from a surety, acceptable in accordance with FAR part 28.
 
                            (D)  A guarantee of repayment from a person or corporation of demonstrated liquid net worth, connected by significant ownership interest to the Contractor.
 
                            (E)  Title to identified Contractor assets of adequate worth.
 
                    (ii)  Paragraph (f) of the clause at FAR 52.232-32 does not apply to the extent that the Contractor and the Contracting Officer agree on alternative forms of security. In the event the Contractor fails to provide adequate security, as required in this contract, no financing payment will be made under this contract. Upon receipt of adequate security, financing payments will be made, including all previous payments to which the Contractor is entitled, in accordance with the terms of the provisions for contract financing. If at any time the Contracting Officer determines that the security provided by the Contractor is insufficient, the Contractor shall promptly provide such additional security as the Contracting Officer determines necessary. In the event the Contractor fails to provide such additional security, the Contracting Officer may collect or liquidate such security that has been provided and suspend further payments to the Contractor; and the Contractor shall repay to the Government the amount of unliquidated financing payments as the Contracting Officer at his sole discretion deems repayable.
 
(End of clause)
 
252.232-7014  Reserved.
 
252.232-7015  Performance-Based Payments-Representation.
As prescribed in 232.1005-70(b), use the following provision:
 
PERFORMANCE-BASED PAYMENTS-REPRESENTATION (DEC 2022)
 
      (a)  In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 3802(c), the Contractor's financial statements shall be in compliance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in order to receive performance-based payments.
 
      (b)  The Offeror represents that its financial statements are [ ] are not [ ] in compliance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
 
(End of provision)
 
252.232-7016  Notice of Progress Payments or Performance-Based Payments.
As prescribed in 232.1005-70(c), insert the following provision:
 
NOTICE OF PROGRESS PAYMENTS OR PERFORMANCE-BASED PAYMENTS (APR 2020)
 
      (a)  The need for customary progress payments in accordance with subpart 32.5 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) or performance-based payments in accordance with FAR subpart 32.10 will not be considered as a handicap or adverse factor in the award of the contract.
 
      (b)  This solicitation includes a FAR and Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS) clause for performance-based payments and a FAR clause for progress payments. The resultant contract will include either performance-based payments or progress payments, not both, except as may be authorized on separate orders subject to FAR 32.1003(c).
 
              (1)  The performance-based payments clauses will be included in the contract if-
 
                    (i)  The Offeror has provided positive representation in response to DFARS 252.232-7015, Performance-Based Payments-Representation;
 
                    (ii)  The Offeror proposes a performance-based payment arrangement in accordance with FAR 52.232-28, Invitation to Propose Performance-Based Payments, including proposed events and timing, event completion criteria, event values, and expected expenditure profile; and
 
                    (iii)  The Offeror and the Government reach agreement on all aspects of the arrangement.
 
              (2)  If performance-based payments clauses are not included in the resultant contract, the progress payments clause included in this solicitation will be included in any resultant contract, modified or altered if necessary in accordance with FAR 52.232-16 and its Alternate I. Even though the progress payments clause is included in the contract, the clause shall be inoperative during any time the contractor's accounting system and controls are determined by the Government to be inadequate for segregation and accumulation of contract costs.
 
(End of provision)
 
252.232-7017  Reserved.
 
252.232-7018  Progress Payments-Multiple Lots.
As prescribed in 232.502-4-70(c), use the following clause:
 
PROGRESS PAYMENTS-MULTIPLE LOTS (MAY 2023)
 
      (a)  Definitions.  As used in this clause-
 
      "Lot" means one or more fixed-price deliverable line items or deliverable subline items representing a single, severable group where the sum of the costs for each group is segregated and a single progress payment rate is used.
 
      "Multiple lots" means more than one lot on a single contract where progress payment proration is performed on a lot-wide, versus contract-wide, basis.
 
      (b)  When submitting progress payment requests under the billing instructions in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clause 52.232-16, Progress Payments, or Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS) clause 252.232-7002, Progress Payments for Foreign Military Sales Acquisitions, of this contract, the Contractor shall-
 
              (1)  Submit separate progress payment requests for each lot identified in the contract;
 
              (2)  Identify the contract price for the lot as the sum of all fixed-priced line items identified to the lot, in accordance with FAR 32.501-3;
 
              (3)  Identify the lot on each progress payment request to which the request applies;
 
              (4)  Calculate each request on the basis of the price, costs (including the cost to complete), subcontractor financing, and progress payment liquidations of the lot to which it applies; and
 
              (5)  Distribute costs among lots in a manner acceptable to the Administrative Contracting Officer.
 
      (c)  Submit a separate progress payment request for U.S. and FMS requirements in accordance with the DFARS clause 252.232-7002, Progress Payments for Foreign Military Sales Acquisitions, of this contract.
 
(End of clause)


Attachment A1
DARS Tracking Number: 2026-O0022
Revolutionary Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Overhaul Part 32
Defense FAR Supplement (DFARS) Part 232


Page 1 of 2

